 
   
  
 
              
                        
   
        
                                                         
                           
      
      
      
        
     
   
 
      
         
                  
   
                  
   
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
              
        
       
                            
                             
                            
                           
            
                       
                         
          
                        
                  
        
               
                
              
                         
                   
                        
                     
                 
                         
                  
                    
                  
                          
                         
            
   
     
                
                      
   
               
                
    
   
  
               
            
    
         
   
       
       
       
       
         
  
       
  
   
       
            
                 
      
                 
      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                 
         
       
                       
                         
                            
                           
        
                       
                         
   
                        
                  
        
     
     
   
                         
               
                        
                     
      
                         
            
                    
                 
                      
                        
            
    
       
                                  
        
              
               UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549 
Form 10-K 
Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 Commission File Number 001-2979 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
Delaware No. 41-0449260 
(State of incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 
420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94104 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 1-866-249-3302 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
Name of 
Title of Each Class Trading
Symbols Each Exchange on
Which Registered 
New York Stock 
Common Stock, par value $1-2/3 WFC Exchange
(NYSE) 
7.5% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L WFC.PRL NYSE 
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of 5.85% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A
Preferred Stock, Series Q WFC.PRQ NYSE 
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A
Preferred Stock, Series R WFC.PRR NYSE 
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Y WFC.PRY NYSE 
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Z WFC.PRZ NYSE 
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series AA WFC.PRA NYSE 
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series CC WFC.PRC NYSE 
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series DD WFC.PRD NYSE 
Guarantee of Medium-Term Notes, Series A, due October 30, 2028 of Wells Fargo Finance LLC WFC/28A NYSE 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares, no par value 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ¨ No þ
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨ No þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of 
Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such 
files). Yes þ No ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an 
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth 
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer þ	 Accelerated filer ☐
Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any 
new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal 
control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that 
prepared or issued its audit report. ☑
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the 
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ¨
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation 
received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to § 240.10D-1(b). ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No þ
At June 30, 2022, the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $148.3 billion, based on a closing price of 
$39.17. At February 10, 2023, 3,793,867,540 shares of common stock were outstanding. 
Documents Incorporated by Reference 
Incorporated Documents Where incorporated in Form 10-K 
1. Portions of the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 Part I – Items 1, 1A and 3; Part II – Items 5, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A; and 
(“2022 Annual Report to Shareholders”) Part IV– Item 15
2. Portions of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
April 25, 2023 (“2023 Proxy Statement”) Part III – Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14  
 
           
           
         
             
          
         
           
       
         
             
            
          
          
           
 
          
          
      
       
          
          
      
  
          
        
         
       
      
         
           
        
          
          
       
        
       
         
       
  
          
      
       
       
        
      
 
             
          
     
         
              
            
                  
        
        
          
    
  
   
    
   
    
    
         
         
  
        
         
         
     
        
       
      
       
      
       
  
          
     
         
       
          
        
         
            
  
            
        
         
        
           
        
         
         
            
          
            
  
        
         
          
         
           
        
           
        
        
         
         
                           
        
             
           
           
         
             
          
         
           
       
 
         
           
           
          
          
           
  
          
          
       
       
          
          
      
   
 
          
        
         
       
      
         
           
        
          
          
       
        
       
         
       
   
          
      
       
       
        
       
  
             
          
     
         
 
              
            
               
   
    
     
    
     
      
         
         
  
       
         
         
      
         
       
      
       
       
       
  
           
     
         
       
 
         
        
         
            
  
           
        
         
        
           
        
         
         
            
           
            
   
       
         
          
         
           
        
           
        
        
         
         
        
 We have set common expectations for everyone at the PART I. Company. These expectations guide how we lead ourselves, 
collaborate with our colleagues, and make decisions. The 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS following expectations apply to everyone at Wells Fargo, at every 
Wells Fargo & Company is a corporation organized under the laws 
of Delaware and a financial holding company and a bank holding 
company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956, as amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a 
holding company for its subsidiaries. References in this report to 
“the Parent” mean the holding company. References to “we,” 
“our,” “us” or “the Company” mean the holding company and its 
subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial reporting 
purposes. 
At December 31, 2022, we had assets of approximately 
$1.9 trillion, loans of $955.9 billion, deposits of $1.4 trillion and 
stockholders’ equity of $180 billion. Based on assets, we were the 
fourth largest bank holding company in the United States. At 
December 31, 2022, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the Company’s 
principal subsidiary with assets of $1.7 trillion, or 91% of the 
Company’s assets. 
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those 
reports, are available for free at www.wellsfargo.com/about/ 
investor-relations/filings as soon as reasonably practicable after 
they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC). They are also available for free 
on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov1. 
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 
General 
We are a leading financial services company that provides a 
diversified set of banking, investment and mortgage products 
and services, as well as consumer and commercial finance, 
through banking locations and offices, the internet 
(www.wellsfargo.com) and other distribution channels to 
individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the 
District of Columbia and in countries outside the U.S. We provide 
consumer financial products and services including checking and 
savings accounts, credit and debit cards, and auto, mortgage and 
home equity, and small business lending. In addition, we offer 
financial planning, private banking, investment management, and 
fiduciary services. We also provide financial solutions to 
businesses through products and services including traditional 
commercial loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-
based lending, trade financing, treasury management, and 
investment banking services. 
As of December 31, 2022, we had four reportable operating 
segments for management reporting purposes: Consumer 
Banking and Lending; Commercial Banking; Corporate and 
Investment Banking; and Wealth and Investment Management. 
The 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders includes financial 
information and descriptions of these operating segments. 
Human Capital 
Our people are what set Wells Fargo apart and are critical to our 
success. Wells Fargo continues to invest in our employees by 
offering market competitive compensation, career-development 
opportunities, a broad array of benefits, and strong work-life 
programs. 
1 We do not control this website. Wells Fargo has provided this link for 
your convenience, but does not endorse and is not responsible for the 
content, links, privacy policy, or security policy of this website. level, and in every role: 
• Embrace candor 
• Do what’s right 
• Be great at execution 
• Learn and grow 
• Champion diversity and inclusion 
• Build high-performing teams (for managers) 
At December 31, 2022, we had approximately 238,000 active 
employees, with approximately 81% of employees based in the 
United States. 
Compensation and benefits. Wells Fargo's compensation program 
is linked to performance management and is designed to 
promote prudent risk management and reinforce its culture and 
operating standards. The compensation principles include: 
• Pay for performance : Compensation is linked to company, 
line of business, and individual performance, including 
meeting regulatory expectations and creating long-term 
value consistent with the interests of shareholders. 
• Promote effective risk management : Compensation promotes 
effective risk management and discourages imprudent or 
excessive risk-taking. 
• Attract and retain talent : People are one of Wells Fargo's 
competitive advantages; therefore, compensation helps 
attract, motivate, and retain people with the skills, talent, 
and experience to drive superior long-term company 
performance. 
In addition, we provide all eligible full- and part-time employees 
(and their eligible dependents, as applicable) with a 
comprehensive set of benefits designed to protect their physical 
and financial health and to help them make the most of their 
financial future. 
Pay Equity Review. Wells Fargo is committed to fair and equitable 
compensation practices and, since 2015, has conducted an 
annual pay equity review through engagement with a third-party 
expert. The review analyzes employee compensation by taking 
into account gender, race, and ethnicity and factors such as role, 
tenure, and geography. The review process can include 
compensation adjustments in the event we identify gaps. The 
2022 review, modified for adjustments as described, showed that 
women at Wells Fargo earn more than 99 cents for every $1 
earned by their male peers, and U.S. employees that are racially/ 
ethnically diverse earn more than 99 cents for every $1 earned by 
their Caucasian/white peers. 
Promoting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Meeting the 
increasingly diverse needs of Wells Fargo’s global customer base 
is critical to our Company’s long-term growth and success. Wells 
Fargo values and promotes diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) 
in every aspect of our business. We are dedicated to recruitment 
and career development practices that support our employees 
and promote diversity in our workforce at all levels of our 
Company, including leadership positions. We have a strong 
record of recruiting, promoting, and rewarding women and 
racially/ethnically diverse employees at all levels of our Company, 
including a goal to increase diverse representation in leadership 
roles. Our Head of Diverse Segments, Representation and 
1            
       
           
            
         
  
          
          
        
            
       
          
      
      
     
         
       
        
           
          
        
          
         
       
         
         
            
        
          
       
             
             
       
        
 
          
            
       
         
          
     
        
        
        
      
         
       
        
         
       
        
   
        
         
       
        
          
       
        
               
    
  
         
       
          
         
         
         
        
           
          
        
         
       
           
       
         
         
            
           
          
         
          
       
          
    
              
          
          
          
         
           
         
           
           
        
         
        
            
         
                
        
          
            
         
            
  
 
          
           
        
        
           
         
         
        
           
          
                  
        
           
            
         
  
         
          
        
            
       
          
      
      
      
        
       
        
           
          
        
          
         
       
         
         
            
        
          
       
             
             
       
        
  
          
            
       
         
          
     
 
        
        
        
      
         
       
        
         
       
        
    
        
         
       
        
          
       
        
               
     
   
         
       
          
         
         
         
        
           
          
        
         
       
           
        
         
         
            
           
          
         
          
       
          
     
 
            
          
          
          
         
           
         
           
                   
        
        
            
         
                
        
          
            
         
            
  
         
           
        
        
           
         
         
        
           
          
        
 Inclusion reports directly to our CEO and leads our DE&I efforts, 
with responsibility for driving a Company-wide DE&I strategy. 
As of December 31, 2022, our global workforce was 52% female 
and 48% male, and our U.S. workforce was 55% female and 45% 
male. Our U.S. workforce was 54% Caucasian/white and 46% 
racially/ethnically diverse. 
Employee training and development. We invest heavily in coaching 
and training for employees and managers. We believe that when 
our employees feel properly supported, engaged, and confident 
in their skills, they are more effective and can provide an even 
better customer experience. During 2022, we invested 
approximately $200 million in a variety of employee learning and 
development programs, including functional training, regulatory 
compliance, leadership and professional development, early 
talent development programs, and tuition reimbursement. 
Work-life programs and the COVID-19 Pandemic. Wells Fargo 
offers many benefits, programs, and work arrangements 
intended to provide employees with flexibility and work-life 
balance. In March 2022, Wells Fargo began its Return to Office 
program for employees who had been working from home during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Wells Fargo believes the Company 
benefits from employees seeing each other on a regular basis. 
When together, it is easier to build relationships, get in-the-
moment coaching, identify career opportunities, and brainstorm 
ideas. Ultimately, when employees work together we believe they 
learn more about the customers and communities the Company 
serves and how to serve them better. With this in mind, Wells 
Fargo's approach emphasizes spending time together in the 
office, and also provides flexible work options for employees in 
certain jobs. For example, employees in certain non-customer-
facing roles have flexibility to have up to two days a week of 
remote work, and spend a minimum of three days a week in the 
office. Expectations for other roles, including customer-facing, 
operations, technology, and non-U.S. based employees, vary by 
business need. 
The health and safety of employees also remains a priority. 
All employees globally may take up to four hours of paid time 
away for each COVID-19 vaccine appointment (including 
boosters). U.S. employees are additionally eligible to receive free 
COVID-19 test kits from Wells Fargo or through their medical 
plan, at no additional cost. 
Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our 
subsidiaries compete with financial services providers such as 
banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance 
companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, 
investment banks and mutual fund companies. They also face 
increased competition from nonbank institutions such as 
brokerage houses, private equity firms and online lending 
companies, as well as from financial services subsidiaries of 
commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these 
competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may 
have lower cost structures. 
Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to 
become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other 
financial institutions. Combinations of this type could 
significantly change the competitive environment in which we 
conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to 
become more competitive as further technological advances 
enable more companies to provide financial services. These 
technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the 
transfer of funds between parties. 
REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 
We describe below, and in Note 25 (Regulatory Capital 
Requirements and Other Restrictions) to Financial Statements 
included in the 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders, the material 
elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. Banking 
statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by 
Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory 
agencies, as well as non-U.S. governments and financial 
regulators, and a change in them, including changes in how they 
are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect on 
our business. The regulatory framework applicable to depository 
institutions and bank holding companies (BHCs) is intended to 
protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers 
and the banking system as a whole, and not necessarily investors 
in bank holding companies such as the Company. 
Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to 
diversify into other areas of financial services, make acquisitions, 
and pay dividends on our capital stock. They may also require us 
to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary 
banks, maintain capital balances in excess of amounts desired by 
management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a 
result of assessments or a general deterioration in the financial 
condition of depository institutions. See the “Regulatory 
Matters” and “Risk Factors” sections in the 2022 Annual Report 
to Shareholders for additional information. 
General Parent Bank Holding Company. As a BHC, the Parent is subject to 
regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and 
supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The 
Parent is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory 
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as 
administered by the SEC. As a company with securities listed on 
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to 
the rules of the NYSE for listed companies. 
Subsidiary Banks. Our subsidiary national banks, and their 
subsidiaries, are subject to regulation and examination primarily 
by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the FRB, 
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the SEC and 
the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The non-
U.S. branches and representative offices of our subsidiary 
national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their 
respective financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. 
Non-U.S. subsidiaries of our national bank subsidiaries may be 
subject to the laws and regulations of the countries in which they 
conduct business. 
Nonbank Subsidiaries. Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also 
subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and 
state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to 
regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as 
well as the FRB. Our brokerage subsidiaries are regulated by the 
SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in 
some cases, the CFTC and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking 
Board, and state securities regulators. Our other nonbank 
subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the 
federal government and/or the various states as well as non-U.S. 
countries in which they conduct business or operate. 
2     
          
           
            
           
          
         
         
        
       
        
      
         
          
         
       
         
         
           
         
           
           
            
           
           
           
             
          
        
          
            
         
        
    
           
        
          
           
         
        
          
         
           
         
            
            
           
          
        
        
          
           
            
           
          
          
    
         
          
          
          
            
           
                  
          
             
           
           
        
          
    
 
          
       
          
       
         
        
         
         
        
        
           
  
 
           
         
           
           
        
         
         
        
          
        
           
          
           
          
       
         
        
        
   
        
           
        
         
          
          
          
          
           
         
         
             
         
         
            
          
         
         
    
          
           
         
              
         
          
            
           
          
         
         
        
       
        
      
         
          
         
       
         
          
           
         
           
           
            
           
           
           
             
          
        
          
            
         
        
     
           
        
          
           
         
        
          
         
           
         
            
            
           
          
        
        
          
           
            
           
          
          
    
        
          
          
          
            
           
                  
                       
           
           
        
          
     
        
       
          
       
         
        
         
         
        
        
           
   
  
           
         
           
           
        
         
         
        
          
        
           
          
           
          
       
         
        
        
    
        
           
        
         
          
          
          
          
           
         
         
             
         
         
            
          
         
         
     
          
           
         
         
 Parent Bank Holding Company Activities 
“Financial in Nature” Requirement. We became a financial holding 
company effective March 13, 2000. We continue to maintain our 
status as a BHC for purposes of various FRB regulations. As a 
BHC that has elected to be treated as a financial holding 
company pursuant to the BHC Act, we may affiliate with 
securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other 
activities that are financial in nature or incidental or 
complementary to activities that are financial in nature. 
“Financial in nature” activities include securities underwriting, 
dealing, and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and 
investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; 
merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, determines to be 
financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. 
“Complementary activities” are activities that the FRB 
determines upon application to be complementary to a financial 
activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk. 
FRB approval is generally not required for us to acquire a 
company (other than a BHC, bank or savings association) 
engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to 
activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. 
Prior notice to the FRB may be required, however, if the company 
to be acquired has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or 
more. Prior FRB approval is required before we may acquire the 
beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting 
shares or substantially all of the assets of a BHC, bank or savings 
association. In addition, the FRB has implemented a final rule 
under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) that also prohibits our ability to 
merge, acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or acquire 
control of another company if our total resulting consolidated 
liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate consolidated 
liabilities of all financial companies. 
Because we are a financial holding company, if any of our 
subsidiary banks receives a rating under the Community 
Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than 
satisfactory, we will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to 
satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities or 
acquiring companies other than BHCs, banks or savings 
associations, except that we could engage in new activities, or 
acquire companies engaged in activities, that are closely related 
to banking under the BHC Act. CRA performance is also taken 
into account by regulators in reviewing applications to establish 
bank branches. In addition, if the FRB finds that the Company or 
any one of our subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well 
managed, we would be required to enter into an agreement with 
the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management 
requirements and which may contain additional limitations or 
conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from 
engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in 
activities that are not closely related to banking under the BHC 
Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such 
condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to 
divest our banking subsidiaries or, in the alternative, to cease 
engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking 
under the BHC Act. 
Interstate Banking . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and 
Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act), a BHC may acquire banks in 
states other than its home state, subject to any state 
requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for 
a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the 
requirement that the BHC not control, prior to or following the 
proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless 
the acquisition is the bank holding company’s initial entry into 
the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such 
lesser or greater amount set by the state). The Riegle-Neal Act 
also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, subject to the 
same deposit limits noted above, thereby creating interstate 
branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish 
new branches in other states. 
Regulatory Approval. In determining whether to approve a 
proposed bank acquisition, federal banking regulators will 
consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on 
competition, financial condition, and future prospects including 
current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, 
experience, and integrity of management and record of 
compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be served, including the acquiring 
institution’s record of compliance under the CRA, the 
effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money 
laundering activities and the risk to the stability of the United 
States banking system. 
Dividend Restrictions 
The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its 
subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries. A significant source of 
funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and 
principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent’s 
subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions and 
regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent’s subsidiary 
banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory 
approval. Federal banking regulators have the authority to 
prohibit the Parent’s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or 
unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment 
of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the bank in 
question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The 
ability of the Parent’s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the 
future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank 
regulatory policies and capital requirements. For information 
about the restrictions applicable to the Parent’s subsidiary banks, 
see Note 25 (Regulatory Capital Requirements and Other 
Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2022 
Annual Report to Shareholders. 
Furthermore, under a Support Agreement dated June 28, 
2017, as amended and restated on June 26, 2019 (the “Support 
Agreement”), among the Parent, WFC Holdings, LLC, an 
intermediate holding company and subsidiary of the Parent (the 
“IHC”), Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Wells 
Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, and certain other subsidiaries of the 
Parent designated from time to time as material entities for 
resolution planning purposes or identified from time to time as 
related support entities in our resolution plan, the IHC may be 
restricted from making dividend payments to the Parent if 
certain liquidity and/or capital metrics fall below defined triggers, 
or if the Parent’s board of directors authorizes it to file a case 
under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Any such restriction could 
materially and adversely impact the Parent’s liquidity and its 
ability to satisfy its debt and other obligations, as well as its 
ability to make dividend payments on its common and preferred 
stock. See the “Regulatory Matters” and “Risk Factors” sections 
of the 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional 
information on the Support Agreement. 
In addition to these restrictions on the ability of our 
subsidiary banks to pay dividends to us, the FRB requires large 
BHCs, including Wells Fargo, to submit annual capital plans 
describing planned capital distributions, such as the payment of 
3          
        
           
        
         
        
         
         
          
       
        
        
         
         
        
       
          
       
      
  
          
           
           
        
       
         
         
             
          
           
           
         
          
           
         
          
           
        
          
               
             
        
         
            
     
           
           
           
             
     
 
           
         
           
          
          
        
         
          
          
         
       
         
           
           
         
           
           
           
            
           
         
         
           
   
 
          
        
           
         
           
         
      
        
        
        
         
          
           
        
         
          
         
       
      
          
        
       
        
         
        
         
          
            
            
          
         
  
        
        
        
         
         
        
      
          
  
          
       
         
        
          
        
                 
        
           
        
         
        
         
         
          
        
        
        
         
         
        
       
          
       
       
   
         
           
           
        
       
         
         
                       
           
           
         
          
           
         
          
           
        
          
             
             
        
         
            
      
           
           
           
             
      
          
         
           
          
          
        
         
          
          
         
               
           
           
         
           
           
           
            
           
         
         
           
    
  
          
        
           
         
           
         
      
        
        
        
         
          
           
        
         
          
         
        
       
          
        
       
        
         
        
         
          
            
            
          
         
  
        
        
        
         
         
        
      
          
   
          
       
         
        
          
        
        
 dividends. Large BHCs, like Wells Fargo, and their insured 
depository institutions also must comply with various capital 
requirements, including the reforms known as Basel III, as well as 
rules that require leverage and supplementary leverage ratio 
requirements. We are also subject to the FRB's rule 
implementing an additional capital surcharge on those U.S. 
banking organizations, such as the Company, that are designated 
as global systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The failure to 
meet any of these requirements could result in limitations or 
restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions. 
In addition, the FRB’s enhanced supervision regulations for 
large BHCs, like Wells Fargo, impose capital distribution 
restrictions, including on the payment of dividends, upon the 
occurrence of capital, stress test, risk management, or liquidity 
risk management triggers. For more information on regulations 
or arrangements that may impose capital distribution 
restrictions on the Company and its subsidiaries, see the “Capital 
Management,” “Regulatory Matters” and “Risk Factors” sections 
of the 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders. 
Holding Company Structure 
Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks. The Parent’s subsidiary 
banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the 
transfer of funds or other assets from such subsidiaries to the 
Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-
called “covered transactions.” In general, covered transactions 
include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and 
asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving 
the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for 
the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered 
transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited 
to 10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus and, with 
respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the 
aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus. 
Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates generally must be 
secured by qualifying collateral. A bank’s transactions with its 
nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm’s 
length terms. The Company is also subject to lending limits and 
qualitative requirements on loans to executive officers, directors 
and principal shareholders of the Parent and its subsidiary banks. 
Source of Strength. The FRB has a policy that a BHC is expected 
to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of 
its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to 
commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This 
support may be required at times when the BHC may not have 
the resources to provide the support. 
The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the 
capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to become 
impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three 
months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent’s stock in the 
national bank to cover the deficiency. 
Depositor Preference. In the event of the “liquidation or other 
resolution” of an insured depository institution, the claims of 
deposits payable in the United States (including the claims of the 
FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for 
administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have 
priority over other general unsecured claims against the 
institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of 
insured and uninsured U.S. depositors, along with claims of the 
FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured creditors, 
including the Parent, and depositors whose deposits are solely 
payable at such insured depository institution’s non-U.S. offices. Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions. The Company’s 
subsidiaries include banks in the U.S., such as Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., that are insured by the FDIC. Under the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act, insured depository institutions can be held liable 
for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by 
the FDIC due to the default of an insured depository institution 
controlled by the same BHC, and for any assistance provided by 
the FDIC to an insured depository institution that is in danger of 
default and that is controlled by the same BHC. “Default” means 
generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver. “In 
danger of default” means generally the existence of certain 
conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the 
absence of regulatory assistance. 
Dodd-Frank Act 
The Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous rules to implement its 
provisions have resulted in enhanced regulation and supervision 
of large BHCs, such as Wells Fargo. This includes, among other 
things, rules to promote financial stability and prevent or 
mitigate the risks that may arise from the material distress or 
failure of a large BHC; enhance consumer protections; prohibit 
proprietary trading; and implement enhanced prudential 
requirements for large BHCs regarding risk-based capital and 
leverage, risk and liquidity management, stress testing, and 
recovery and resolution planning. The Dodd-Frank Act, including 
current and future rules implementing its provisions and the 
interpretation of those rules, has affected, and we expect will 
continue to affect, most of our businesses in some way, either 
directly through regulation of specific activities or indirectly 
through regulation of concentration risks, capital or liquidity. For 
more information about the Dodd-Frank Act and its effect on 
our business, see the “Regulatory Matters” and “Risk Factors” 
sections of the 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders. 
Capital and Liquidity Requirements and Capital Planning 
The Company and each of our insured depository institutions are 
subject to various regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity 
requirements administered by federal banking regulators. The 
capital rules, among other things, establish required minimum 
ratios relating capital to different categories of assets and 
exposures. Federal banking regulators have also imposed a 
leverage ratio and supplementary leverage ratio on large BHCs, 
like Wells Fargo, and their insured depository institutions, as well 
as a liquidity coverage ratio and a net stable funding ratio. The 
FRB has also finalized rules to address the amount of equity and 
unsecured long-term debt a G-SIB must hold to improve its 
resolvability and resiliency, often referred to as total loss 
absorbing capacity. 
From time to time, federal banking regulators propose 
changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-
based capital requirements and related reporting instructions. In 
addition, the FRB closely monitors capital levels of the 
institutions it supervises and may require such institutions to 
modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such 
determinations, proposals or interpretations could, if 
implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and 
net risk-adjusted assets. 
As an additional means to identify problems in the financial 
management of depository institutions, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (FDI Act) requires federal banking regulators to 
establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for 
institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The 
standards relate generally to operations and management, asset 
quality, interest rate exposure, executive compensation and risk 
4         
        
         
       
        
       
          
          
     
         
       
       
        
          
         
    
        
         
   
  
         
           
          
            
         
          
         
 
         
          
          
    
        
         
            
          
         
         
            
         
      
 
   
          
         
          
            
        
          
        
        
       
        
        
         
          
            
            
        
 
       
   
       
                    
        
          
        
        
         
       
        
         
          
         
         
        
        
   
       
         
        
        
         
        
          
          
        
      
       
        
          
         
       
          
        
        
         
        
         
 
  
       
        
           
        
          
          
       
           
        
      
        
         
         
        
   
   
         
          
          
         
       
         
       
          
                
         
         
       
        
       
          
          
      
         
       
       
        
          
         
     
        
         
    
   
         
           
          
            
         
          
         
  
         
          
          
     
        
         
            
          
         
         
            
         
       
    
          
         
          
            
        
          
        
        
       
        
        
         
          
            
                     
       
    
       
                    
        
          
        
        
         
       
        
         
          
         
         
        
        
    
       
         
        
        
         
        
          
          
         
      
       
        
          
         
       
          
        
        
         
        
          
   
       
        
           
        
          
          
       
           
        
      
        
         
         
        
    
    
         
          
          
         
       
        
       
          
        
 management. Federal banking regulators are authorized to take 
action against institutions that fail to meet such standards. 
The FDI Act requires federal banking regulators to take 
“prompt corrective action” with respect to FDIC-insured 
depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital 
requirements. A depository institution’s treatment for purposes 
of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how 
its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain 
other factors, as established by regulation. 
In addition, the FRB’s capital plan rule establishes capital 
planning and other requirements that govern capital 
distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, by 
certain BHCs, including Wells Fargo. Federal banking regulators 
also require stress tests to evaluate whether an institution has 
sufficient capital to continue to operate during periods of 
adverse economic and financial conditions. 
For more information on our capital requirements and 
planning, see the “Capital Management” section of the 2022 
Annual Report to Shareholders. 
Deposit Insurance Assessments 
The Company’s subsidiaries include banks, such as Wells Fargo 
Bank, N.A., that are insured by the FDIC. Through the Deposit 
Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC, the FDIC insures 
the deposits of our insured banks up to prescribed limits for each 
depositor and funds the DIF through assessments on member 
banks. To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an 
insurance premium based on an assessment base and an 
assessment rate. 
The FDIC has adopted a comprehensive, long-range plan for 
DIF management, targeting a designated reserve ratio of 2%. For 
the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company's FDIC deposit 
insurance assessments totaled $679 million. 
The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit 
insurance upon a finding that the institution’s financial condition 
is unsafe or unsound or that the institution or its directors have 
engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or have violated any 
applicable law, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed 
by the institution’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit 
insurance for one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a 
material adverse effect on our earnings, depending on the 
collective size of the particular banks involved. 
Fiscal and Monetary Policies 
Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal 
and monetary policies of the federal government and its 
agencies. We are particularly affected by the monetary policies of 
the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the 
United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy 
available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations 
in United States government securities, (b) changing the 
discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) 
imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository 
institutions’ deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve 
requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their 
affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and 
combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and 
deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid 
on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect 
on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and 
Restrictions on Affiliate Marketing 
Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic 
information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The 
rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in 
some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of 
certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The 
privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer 
information is transmitted through diversified financial services 
companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Federal financial 
regulators have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate 
Credit Transactions Act that have the effect of increasing the 
length of the waiting period, after privacy disclosures are 
provided to new customers, before information can be shared 
among different affiliated companies for the purpose of 
marketing products and services by those affiliated companies. 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented 
a broad range of corporate governance and accounting measures 
to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced 
penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly 
traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the 
accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities 
laws. We are subject to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required 
to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/ 
or its implementing regulations established membership 
requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit 
committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us 
and our outside auditors (including restrictions on the types of 
non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed 
additional responsibilities for our external financial statements 
on our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, expanded 
the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required 
our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and 
procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and 
required our independent registered public accounting firm to 
issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. 
USA PATRIOT Act 
The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism 
Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act) is intended to strengthen the 
ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence 
communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety 
of fronts. The USA PATRIOT Act has significant implications for 
depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses 
involved in the transfer of money. The USA PATRIOT Act requires 
the implementation of policies and procedures relating to 
anti‑money laundering, economic sanctions, suspicious activities, 
and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on 
customers. The USA PATRIOT Act also requires federal banking 
regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in 
combating money laundering in determining whether to approve 
a proposed bank acquisition. 
Future Legislation or Regulation 
Economic, market and political conditions during the past several 
years have led to a significant amount of legislation and 
regulation in the U.S. and abroad affecting the financial services 
industry, as well as heightened expectations and scrutiny of 
financial services companies from banking regulators. Further 
legislative changes and additional regulations may change our 
operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. 
Such legislation and regulations could increase our cost of doing 
business, affect our compensation structure, restrict or expand 
5            
        
        
          
          
      
 
            
        
        
       
            
           
        
       
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
 
    
    
      
     
    
 
  
   
   
    
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
         
                                 
      
            
         
         
         
            
        
          
           
          
              
          
                     
        
        
          
          
       
  
            
        
        
      
       
            
           
        
        
    
 
  
    
  
    
  
     
      
        
       
     
   
    
     
     
      
   
    
    
   
     
     
    
    
  
  
   
     
   
          
                                  
       
           
         
        
         
            
        
          
           
          
              
          
           
  the activities in which we may engage or affect the competitive 
balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and 
other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether future 
legislative proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect 
that they, or any implementing regulations, would have on our 
business, results of operations or financial condition. 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in 
the 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders under “Financial 
Review” and under “Financial Statements.” That information is 
incorporated into this item by reference. 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 
Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in this 
report under Item 1 and in the 2022 Annual Report to 
Shareholders under “Financial Review – Risk Factors.” That 
information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF 
COMMENTS 
Not applicable. 
December 31, 2022 Approximate square
footage
(in millions) 
We occupy properties in: 
United States 
San Francisco-Oakland-Berkeley, CA metro area 
420 Montgomery Street (corporate headquarters) 0.4 
All other San Francisco metro area locations 2.8 
Total San Francisco, CA metro area 3.2 
Top 10 other U.S. locations: 
Charlotte-Concord-Gastonia, NC-SC 7.0 
Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI 4.4 
New York-Newark-Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA 3.1 
Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA 2.9 
Des Moines-West Des Moines, IA 2.9 
Phoenix-Mesa-Chandler, AZ 2.9 
St. Louis, MO-IL 2.2 
Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX 1.6 
Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE-MD 1.5 
Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach, FL 1.3 
All other U.S. locations 32.3 
Total United States 65.3 
Top 5 International locations: 
India 3.9 
Philippines 0.9 
United Kingdom 0.3 
All other international locations 0.3 
Total International 5.4 
Total square footage of property occupied for business operations (1) 
(1) In addition to the total square footage of property occupied, Wells Fargo held 2.8 million square feet of real estate as of December 31, 2022, that was vacant pending disposition, leased to retail 
tenants or leased-to-term by third-party office tenants. 
As of December 31, 2022, we provided a diversified set of 
banking, investment and mortgage products and services, as well 
as consumer and commercial finance, through banking locations 
and offices under ownership and lease agreements. The locations 
and offices occupied by the Company are used across all of our 
reportable operating segments and for corporate purposes. We 
continue to evaluate our owned and leased properties and may 
determine from time to time that certain of our properties are 
no longer necessary for our operations. There is no assurance 
that we will be able to dispose of any excess properties or that we 
will not incur charges in connection with such dispositions, which 
could be material to our operating results in a given period. 
6 70.7   
             
        
          
       
   
 
 
    
   
  
    
 
  
          
         
       
           
          
        
          
          
          
       
        
         
            
          
        
        
        
        
             
           
         
      
       
          
          
 
          
        
           
        
          
          
        
        
          
          
         
          
  
   
         
   
  
 
      
       
      
  
                               
                
             
        
          
        
     
  
  
     
   
  
    
  
  
          
         
       
          
          
 
 
        
          
          
          
       
          
         
            
         
        
        
        
        
             
           
         
      
       
          
          
  
          
        
           
        
          
         
        
 
        
          
         
         
          
   
   
    
       
           
     
    
    
  
                                
             
 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
Information in response to this Item 3 can be found in the 2022 
Annual Report to Shareholders under “Financial Statements – 
Notes to Financial Statements – Note 13 (Legal Actions).” That 
information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable. 
PART II 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S 
COMMON EQUITY, RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF 
EQUITY SECURITIES 
MARKET INFORMATION 
The Company’s common stock is listed on the NYSE (symbol 
“WFC”). The “Stock Performance” section of the 2022 Annual 
Report to Shareholders provides stockholder return comparisons 
and is incorporated herein by reference. At February 10, 2023, 
there were 231,886 holders of record of the Company’s common 
stock. 
DIVIDENDS 
The dividend restrictions discussions in the “Regulation and 
Supervision – Dividend Restrictions” section under Item 1 of this 
report and in the 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders under 
“Financial Statements – Notes to Financial Statements – Note 25 
(Regulatory Capital Requirements and Other Restrictions)” are 
incorporated into this item by reference. REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
In January 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the 
repurchase of up to 500 million shares of our common stock. At 
December 31, 2022, we had remaining Board authority to 
repurchase approximately 250 million shares of common stock, 
subject to regulatory and legal conditions. The authorizations 
cover shares repurchased to meet employee benefit plan 
requirements. The Company maintains a variety of retirement 
plans for its employees and typically is a net issuer of shares of 
common stock to these plans. From time to time, it also 
purchases shares of common stock from these plans to 
accommodate employee preferences. Share repurchases are 
subtracted from the Company’s repurchase authority without 
offset for share issuances. Shares may be repurchased from the 
different benefit plans or in the open market, subject to 
regulatory approval. 
The amount and timing of stock repurchases will be based 
on various factors, including our capital requirements, the 
number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans 
and acquisitions, market conditions (including the trading price 
of our stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. See the 
“Capital Management” section in the 2022 Annual Report to 
Shareholders for additional information about our common stock 
repurchases. 
The following table shows Company repurchases of its 
common stock for each calendar month in the quarter ended 
December 31, 2022. In fourth quarter 2022, common stock 
repurchases were limited to repurchases in connection with the 
Wells Fargo & Company Stock Purchase Plan and the Company’s 
deferred compensation plans. 
Maximum number of 
shares that may yet 
Total number of Weighted-average be repurchased under 
Calendar month shares repurchased (1) price paid per share the authorization 
October 52,876 $ 43.67 250,466,216 
November 43,423 46.77 250,422,793 
December 32,959 42.94 250,389,834 
Total 129,258 
(1) All shares were repurchased under an authorization covering up to 500 million shares of common stock approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced by the Company on January 15, 
2021. Unless modified or revoked by the Board, this authorization does not expire. 
7  
   
    
    
            
         
        
   
  
  
             
         
       
     
    
 
             
       
        
         
     
  
   
  
 
   
           
        
         
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
      
    
    
          
           
                   
      
           
         
     
                             
   
              
          
   
                 
 
             
                  
                 
  
              
      
 
                 
                    
                 
         
     
  
       
               
         
                 
   
       
    
             
       
        
         
  
  
        
     
     
           
                              
       
            
          
     
                             
    
               
          
    
                 
  
              
                   
          
 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION 
AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS 
Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the 
2022 Annual Report to Shareholders under “Financial Review.” 
That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND 
QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES 
ABOUT MARKET RISK 
Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the 2022 
Annual Report to Shareholders under “Financial Review – Risk 
Management – Asset/Liability Management.” That information is 
incorporated into this item by reference. 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND 
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the 2022 
Annual Report to Shareholders under “Financial Statements,” 
under “Notes to Financial Statements” and under “Quarterly 
Financial Data.” That information is incorporated into this item 
by reference. 
PART III ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND 
DISAGREEMENTS WITH 
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING 
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
Not applicable. 
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the 
2022 Annual Report to Shareholders under “Controls and 
Procedures.” That information is incorporated into this item by 
reference. 
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
Not applicable. 
ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING 
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT 
PREVENT INSPECTIONS 
Not applicable. 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 
Muneera S. Carr (age 54) 
Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller since March 2020; 
Executive Vice President and Controller from January 2020 to March 2020; 
Executive Vice President from February 2013 to October 2019 and Chief Financial Officer from January 2018 to October 2019 
at Comerica, Incorporated, a financial services company; 
Chief Accounting Officer at Comerica Incorporated from July 2010 to January 2018. 
Ms. Carr has served with the Company for 3 years. 
William M. Daley (age 74) 
Vice Chairman of Public Affairs since November 2019; 
Vice Chairman and a member of the Executive Committee at Bank of New York Mellon, a financial services company, from June 
2019 to October 2019; 
Managing Partner at Argentiere Capital, an investment management firm, from May 2014 to June 2019. 
Mr. Daley has served with the Company for 3 years. 
Kristy Fercho (age 56) 
Senior Executive Vice President, Head of Diverse Segments, Representation and Inclusion and Head of Home Lending since 
October 2022; 
Executive Vice President and Head of Home Lending from July 2020 to October 2022; 
President of the Mortgage Division at Flagstar Bancorp, Inc., a financial services company, from August 2017 to July 2020. 
Ms. Fercho has served with the Company for 2 years. 
8     
           
                
               
            
    
           
                                
            
   
           
                 
 
         
    
              
          
              
          
                 
       
            
    
                             
    
                  
 
         
    
         
                
 
         
    
           
                
     
                 
                  
 
          
    
                             
    
                 
         
    
                           
 
                  
 
              
                            
                
             
     
            
                                  
             
    
            
                 
  
          
     
               
           
              
           
                 
        
             
     
                              
     
                  
  
          
     
          
                
  
          
     
           
                
     
                  
                  
  
          
     
                              
     
                  
          
     
                            
  
                  
  
          
 Derek A. Flowers (age 51) 
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer since January 2022; 
Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Strategic Execution and Operations from June 2019 to January 2022; 
Executive Vice President and Chief Credit and Market Risk Officer from July 2016 to June 2019. 
Mr. Flowers has served with the Company or its predecessors for 24 years. 
Kyle G. Hranicky (age 53) 
Senior Executive Vice President and CEO of Commercial Banking since September 2021; 
Executive Vice President and Head of Wells Fargo Middle Market Banking from August 2018 to September 2021; 
Executive Vice President and Head of Wells Fargo Corporate Banking Group from April 2015 to July 2018. 
Mr. Hranicky has served with the Company or its predecessors for 28 years. 
Bei Ling (age 52) 
Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Human Resources since October 2021; 
Managing Director, Human Resources at JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial services company, from April 2013 to 
September 2021. 
Ms. Ling has served with the Company for 1 year. 
Mary T. Mack (age 60) 
Senior Executive Vice President and CEO of Consumer and Small Business Banking since February 2020; 
Interim CEO of Consumer Lending from February 2020 to April 2020; 
Senior Executive Vice President (Consumer Banking), reflecting the renamed Consumer Banking organization which combined 
Community Banking and Consumer Lending, from April 2019 to February 2020; 
Senior Executive Vice President (Consumer Lending) from December 2017 to April 2019 and Senior Executive Vice President 
(Community Banking) from November 2016 to April 2019. 
Ms. Mack has served with the Company or its predecessors for 38 years. 
Lester J. Owens (age 65) 
Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Operations since July 2020; 
Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Operations at Bank of New York Mellon, a financial services company, from 
February 2019 to April 2020; 
Managing Director for Wholesale Banking Operations at JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial services company, from 2007 to 
December 2018. 
Mr. Owens has served with the Company for 2 years. 
Ellen R. Patterson (age 49) 
Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel since March 2020; 
Group Head, General Counsel at The Toronto-Dominion Bank, a financial services company, from November 2017 to 
March 2020. 
Ms. Patterson has served with the Company for 2 years. 
Scott E. Powell (age 60) 
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since December 2019; 
President and Chief Executive Officer of Santander Consumer USA Holdings Inc., a financial services company, from 
August 2017 to December 2019; 
Senior Executive Vice President of Santander Bank, N.A., a financial services company, from August 2017 to December 2019; 
President and Chief Executive Officer of Santander Holdings USA Inc., a financial services company, from March 2015 to 
December 2019. 
Mr. Powell has served with the Company for 3 years. 
Michael P. Santomassimo (age 47) 
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2020; 
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Bank of New York Mellon, a financial services company, from 
January 2018 to July 2020; 
Chief Financial Officer of Investment Services at Bank of New York Mellon from July 2016 to January 2018. 
Mr. Santomassimo has served with the Company for 2 years. 
Kleber R. Santos (age 49) 
Senior Executive Vice President and CEO of Consumer Lending since July 2022; 
Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Diverse Segments, Representation and Inclusion from November 2020 to 
October 2022; 
President, Retail and Direct Banking at Capital One Financial Corporation, a financial services company, from March 2017 to 
October 2020. 
Mr. Santos has served with the Company for 2 years. 
9     
        
                   
         
   
             
                  
  
         
    
           
                  
    
          
    
             
            
             
         
    
              
                
     
         
 
                     
    
  
           
         
           
          
          
         
          
          
          
          
       
    
         
         
       
        
      
     
        
           
          
     
  
         
        
            
          
          
                           
          
    
              
                  
   
          
     
           
                  
     
           
     
              
             
              
          
     
               
                
     
          
                     
     
     
                   
                  
                     
                
          
                       
                   
                  
                      
                  
      
     
 
         
         
       
        
      
     
 
 Charles W. Scharf (age 57) 
Chief Executive Officer and President since October 2019; 
Chief Executive Officer of Bank of New York Mellon, a financial services company, from July 2017 to September 2019. 
Mr. Scharf has served with the Company for 3 years. 
Barry Sommers (age 53) 
Senior Executive Vice President and CEO of Wealth and Investment Management since June 2020; 
Chief Executive Officer of Wealth Management at JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial services company, from September 2016 
to April 2019. 
Mr. Sommers has served with the Company for 2 years. 
Saul Van Beurden (age 53) 
Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Technology since April 2019; 
Chief Information Officer of Consumer and Community Banking at JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial services company, from 
August 2016 to January 2019. 
Mr. Van Beurden has served with the Company for 3 years. 
Jonathan G. Weiss (age 65) 
Senior Executive Vice President and CEO of Corporate and Investment Banking since February 2020; 
Interim CEO of Wealth and Investment Management from February 2020 to June 2020; 
Senior Executive Vice President (Wealth and Investment Management) from July 2017 to February 2020. 
Mr. Weiss has served with the Company for 17 years. 
Ather Williams III (age 52) 
Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Strategy, Digital Platform, and Innovation since October 2020; 
Managing Director, Head of Business Banking at Bank of America Corporation, a financial services company, from 
September 2017 to July 2020. 
Mr. Williams has served with the Company for 2 years. 
There is no family relationship between any of the Company’s executive officers or directors. All executive officers serve at the pleasure 
of the Board of Directors. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION 
The Audit Committee is a standing audit committee of the Board 
of Directors established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Committee has four 
members: Mark A. Chancy, Theodore F. Craver, Jr. (Chair), CeCelia 
G. Morken, and Ronald L. Sargent. Each member is independent, 
as independence for audit committee members is defined by 
NYSE rules. The Board of Directors has determined, in its 
business judgment, that each member of the Audit Committee is 
financially literate, as required by NYSE rules, and that Messrs. 
Chancy, Craver, Jr., and Sargent each qualifies as an “audit 
committee financial expert” as defined by SEC regulations. 
CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS 
CONDUCT 
The Company’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable 
to employees (including executive officers) as well as directors, 
the Company’s corporate governance guidelines, and the 
charters for the Audit, Governance and Nominating, Human 
Resources, Corporate Responsibility, Finance, and Risk 
Committees are available at www.wellsfargo.com/about/ 
corporate/governance . ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Additional information with respect to our directors, executive 
officers, and corporate governance in response to this Item 10 
will be in the Company’s 2023 Proxy Statement and is 
incorporated into this item by reference. 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
Information with respect to our executive officer and director 
compensation and with respect to the Human Resources 
Committee of the Board of Directors in response to this Item 11 
will be in the Company’s 2023 Proxy Statement and is 
incorporated into this item by reference. 
10     
   
   
  
   
        
         
          
         
         
           
          
 
   
     
  
 
 
    
 
       
  
  
 
 
   
            
           
      
                       
                            
                            
                        
                                   
                            
                          
   
                              
                              
                 
       
  
  
  
     
    
   
    
          
 
      
       
  
        
  
  
   
      
      
    
  
        
 
 
         
          
                   
        
           
       
          
               
   
   
  
 
   
 
        
         
          
         
         
           
          
  
    
   
    
        
       
       
      
            
             
             
    
                         
                             
                           
                         
                                    
                             
                           
    
                               
                              
                  
   
   
  
 
    
   
   
          
      
     
      
       
  
   
   
   
          
      
     
    
  
                 
          
           
              
                    
                    
 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF 
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS 
AND MANAGEMENT AND 
RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
MATTERS 
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN 
INFORMATION 
The following table provides information about our equity 
compensation plans in effect on December 31, 2022, separately 
aggregated for plans approved by shareholders and for plans not 
approved by shareholders. A description of the material features 
of each equity compensation plan not approved by shareholders 
follows the table. All outstanding awards relate to shares of our 
common stock. Information is as of December 31, 2022, unless 
otherwise indicated. 
Equity Compensation Plan Information 
(a) (b) (c) 
# of shares remaining 
# of shares to be available for future 
issued upon exercise Weighted-average issuance under equity 
of outstanding exercise price of compensation plans 
options, warrants outstanding options, (excluding securities 
Plan category and rights warrants and rights (1) reflected in column (a)) 
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 60,458,799 (2) $ 0.00 131,346,845 (3) 
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 5,259,807 (4) NA 3,089,783 (5) 
Total 65,718,606 0.00 134,436,628 
(1) Does not reflect restricted share rights (RSRs), restricted share units (RSUs), performance share awards or deferred compensation benefits because they have no exercise price. 
(2) For the Wells Fargo & Company 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2022 LTIP) and its predecessor the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP), consists of 53,237,143 shares subject to RSRs, 
and a maximum of 5,731,327 performance shares. For the Supplemental 401(k) Plan, consists of 1,126,379 shares issuable upon distribution of benefits. For the Directors Stock Compensation and 
Deferral Plan (Directors Plan), consists of 228,946 shares issuable upon distribution of deferred stock awards, and 135,004 shares issuable upon distribution of deferred compensation benefits. 
(3) We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock indicated in the table below captioned “Plans approved by security holders” pursuant to any of the award types listed for the plan or, 
if indicated for the plan, pursuant to distributions of deferred compensation benefits. No information is provided for the LTICP because no future awards will be made under this plan. 
(4) This consists of shares of common stock issuable upon distribution of deferred compensation benefits and 617 shares issuable upon distribution related to the Norwest Corporation Directors’ 
Formula Stock Award Plan. 
(5) We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock indicated in the table below captioned “Plans not approved by security holders” pursuant to distributions of deferred compensation 
benefits. No information is provided for the Norwest Corporation Directors’ Formula Stock Award Plan because no future awards or deferrals will be made under this plan and because column (a) 
reflects all shares issuable under those plans upon exercise or distribution of outstanding awards or deferred compensation benefits. 
# of shares remaining
available for future 
issuance under equity
compensation plans
(excluding # of shares to
be issued upon exercise
of outstanding options, 
Plans approved by security holders warrants and rights) Award types 
Stock, restricted stock, RSRs, performance shares, 
2022 LTIP 129,493,577 performance units 
Supplemental 401(k) Plan 1,723,509 Deferral distribution 
Directors Plan 129,759 Stock options, deferral distribution 
Total 131,346,845 
# of shares remaining
available for future 
issuance under equity 
Plans not approved by security holders compensation plans Award types 
Deferred Compensation Plan 2,942,642 Deferral distribution 
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent
Contractors 147,141 Deferral distribution 
Total 3,089,783 
Material Features of Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved Deferral elections are irrevocable once made except for limited 
by Shareholders re-deferral opportunities. We treat amounts deferred by a 
participant as if invested in the earnings options selected by the 
Deferred Compensation Plan . Under the Deferred Compensation participant, and determine the deferred compensation benefit 
Plan, eligible employees may defer receipt of salary, bonuses and payable to the participant based on the performance of those 
certain other compensation subject to the terms of the plan. earnings options. The plan offers a number of earnings options, 
11          
        
         
            
          
     
      
        
       
        
          
          
           
         
           
       
           
         
       
           
          
         
        
           
        
          
            
        
         
           
          
        
         
        
         
            
           
            
          
          
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
      
 
        
          
            
          
       
   
 
        
         
           
     
    
 
        
            
          
 
    
 
   
       
         
           
          
    
         
         
                
        
         
            
          
      
      
      
       
        
          
          
           
         
           
       
           
         
       
           
          
         
        
           
        
          
            
        
         
           
          
         
        
        
         
            
           
            
          
          
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
       
  
        
          
            
          
         
   
  
        
         
           
      
     
  
        
            
          
 
  
     
  
   
       
         
           
          
 
    
         
         
        
 including one based on our common stock with dividends 
reinvested. We generally distribute amounts allocated to the 
common stock option in shares of common stock. Participants 
have no direct interest in any of the earnings options and are 
general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to their 
deferred compensation benefits under the plan. 
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent 
Contractors . Under the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation 
Plan for Independent Contractors participants who performed 
qualifying investment or other financial services for participating 
affiliates as independent contractors were able to defer all or 
part of their eligible compensation payable to them by the 
affiliate subject to the terms of the plan. Deferral elections were 
irrevocable once made. Amounts deferred by a participant were 
treated as if invested in the earnings options selected by the 
participant, which determine the deferred compensation benefit 
payable to the participant. The plan offered a number of earnings 
options, including one based on our common stock with 
dividends reinvested. We generally distribute amounts allocated 
to the common stock option in shares of common stock. No 
future deferrals may be made under this plan and participants 
may no longer reallocate their existing account balances under 
the plan among different investment options. Shares remaining 
available for issuance under the plan consist of shares issuable as 
a result of amounts credited to participant accounts 
denominated in our common stock to reflect cash dividends paid 
on the common stock. The plan is sponsored by a wholly owned 
subsidiary, WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. We have 
guaranteed its obligations under the plan. Participants have no 
direct interest in any of the earnings options and are general 
unsecured creditors of the plan sponsor and the Company with 
respect to their deferred compensation benefits under the plan. 
Norwest Corporation Directors’ Formula Stock Award Plan . Under 
the Norwest Corporation Directors’ Formula Stock Award Plan 
we awarded shares of common stock to non-employee directors. 
The plan allowed participants to defer receipt of all or a portion 
of their awards, with dividends reinvested, until a future year or 
years as selected by the participants subject to the terms of the 
plan. Participants can elect one time to defer commencement of 
distribution of their deferral accounts if the election is made 
sufficiently in advance of the original distribution 
commencement date and the new distribution commencement 
date is sufficiently beyond the original distribution 
commencement date. Participants have no direct interest in the 
shares deferred under the plan and are general unsecured 
creditors of the Company with respect to payment of their 
deferred stock awards under the plan. No future stock awards or 
deferrals may be made under this plan. 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Additional information with respect to security ownership of 
certain beneficial owners of our common stock and the security 
ownership of our management in response to this Item 12 will be 
in the Company’s 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated into 
this item by reference. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND 
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND 
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
Information with respect to certain relationships and related 
transactions and director independence in response to this Item 
13 will be in the Company’s 2023 Proxy Statement and is 
incorporated into this item by reference. 
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES 
AND SERVICES 
Information with respect to principal accountant fees and 
services in response to this Item 14 will be in the Company’s 
2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated into this item by 
reference. 
PART IV 
ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL 
STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Company’s consolidated financial statements, including the 
Notes thereto, and the report of the independent registered 
public accounting firm thereon, are set forth in the 2022 Annual 
Report to Shareholders, and are incorporated into this item by 
reference. 
2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
All financial statement schedules for the Company have been 
included in the consolidated financial statements or the related 
footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required. 
12   
 
                           
                     
    
                      
                   
        
            
          
        
    
          
       
  
       
             
            
     
   
               
       
   
       
            
       
   
       
        
         
       
   
      
           
        
    
            
        
    
        
        
           
               
        
    
               
        
     
               
        
    
               
        
    
          
                           
                     
     
                     
                   
         
   
 
                   
          
     
         
      
   
      
           
           
     
      
                
      
   
               
           
   
               
               
     
              
           
     
           
       
     
      
          
            
 
               
       
     
               
       
     
               
       
     
               
       
     
        
 3. EXHIBITS 
A list of exhibits to this Form 10-K is set forth below. Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the following exhibits, upon payment of a 
reasonable fee, by writing to Wells Fargo & Company, Office of the Corporate Secretary, MAC J0193-610, 30 Hudson Yards, 61st Floor, 
New York, New York 10001. 
The Company’s SEC file number is 001-2979. On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under 
the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo & Company filed documents under SEC file number 001-6214. The former 
Wachovia Corporation filed documents under SEC file number 001-10000. 
Exhibit Description Location 
Number 
3(a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and in effect on Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the 
the date hereof. Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2022. 
3(b) By-Laws. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
March 1, 2018. 
4(a) See Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b). 
4(b) The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the Commission a
copy of each instrument defining the rights of holders of senior and
subordinated debt of the Company. 
4(c) Description of Securities. Filed herewith. 
10(a)* Wells Fargo & Company 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
April 29, 2022. 
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the 
restated on April 26, 2019). Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
April 26, 2019. 
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the 
restated on April 23, 2013), which includes Performance-Based Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
Compensation Policy. April 26, 2013. 
Amendment to Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the 
effective January 1, 2016. Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2015. 
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2009. 
Forms of Performance Share Award Agreement: 
For grants on or after January 24, 2023; Filed herewith. 
For grants to non-employee directors on or after January 1, Filed herewith. 
2023; 
For grants on or after April 27, 2022; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2022. 
For grants on or after January 25, 2022; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
For grants on or after January 26, 2021; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2020. 
For grants on or after February 24, 2020; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2019. 
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
13                
        
    
               
        
    
               
        
    
               
        
    
                
        
    
               
        
    
         
        
               
        
    
               
        
    
               
        
    
               
        
    
         
             
       
  
               
        
    
               
        
    
               
        
    
               
        
    
               
        
    
                
        
     
   
        
                                 
        
       
        
        
                        
        
      
                                                        
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
  
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
      
   
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
       
       
     
 Exhibit Description
Number Location 
For grants on or after February 26, 2019; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2018. 
For grants on or after February 26, 2018; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2017. 
For grants on or after February 28, 2017; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2016. 
For grants on or after February 23, 2016; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2015. 
For grants on or after February 24, 2015 ; and Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2014. 
For grants on or after February 26, 2013 . Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2012. 
Forms of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement: 
For grants on or after January 24, 2023; Filed herewith. 
For grants on or after April 27, 2022; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2022. 
For grants on or after January 25, 2022; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
For grants on or after January 26, 2021; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2020. 
For grants on or after February 24, 2020; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2019. 
Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement for grant to Charles
W. Scharf on October 21, 2019; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
October 25, 2019. 
For grants on or after April 7, 2019; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2019. 
For grants on or after February 26, 2019; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2019. 
For grants on or after December 14, 2017; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2017. 
For grants on or after February 28, 2017; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017. 
For grants on or after February 23, 2016; Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2015. 
For grants on or after February 24, 2015; and Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2014. 
14                  
        
    
               
        
    
          
                 
        
    
        
          
        
    
                
        
     
                
        
    
                
        
    
      
          
        
    
                
        
    
                
        
    
       
             
        
    
                
        
    
                
        
    
                
        
    
                
        
    
      
           
        
    
             
        
    
          
   
         
        
     
   
               
       
     
             
       
     
             
                 
       
     
        
          
       
     
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
     
          
       
     
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
      
             
       
     
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
     
          
       
     
              
       
     
       
           
       
     
 Exhibit 
Number Description Location 
For grants on or after February 26, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2012. 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2013. 
10(b)* Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2023. Filed herewith. 
Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
10(c)* Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective
October 8, 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2020. 
Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective January 1,
2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2009. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1,
2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1,
2021. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2020. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
December 31, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2018. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective July 1,
2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1,
2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2016. 
Amendments to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective August
1, 2016 and January 1, 2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2016. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1,
2016. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2015. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1,
2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2014. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1,
2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2012. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1,
2011. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2011. 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
December 1, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2009. 
10(d)* Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2007. 
Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective April 1, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2013. 
15           
   
         
        
    
          
   
         
        
    
          
   
         
        
    
          
   
         
        
    
          
    
         
        
     
           
            
        
    
         
         
                 
        
    
           
              
        
    
                
        
       
                   
        
     
          
       
   
                
        
    
                
        
    
                
        
    
       
         
        
    
                
        
    
      
           
        
    
           
       
   
       
          
        
     
   
       
           
       
     
       
           
       
     
       
           
       
     
       
           
       
     
      
            
       
     
       
           
       
     
      
        
                
       
     
        
              
       
     
                 
       
       
               
       
     
           
      
   
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
       
        
       
     
      
         
       
     
                
       
     
     
          
       
     
            
      
   
      
          
       
     
 Exhibit 
Number Description Location 
Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective January 1, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2013. 
Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective January 24, 2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2011. 
Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective January 25, 2011. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2011. 
Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective February 24, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2009. 
Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral
Plan, effective September 23, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2008. 
Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective January 22, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2007. 
Action of Governance and Nominating Committee Increasing
Amount of Formula Stock and Option Awards Under Directors
Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2006. 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for grants to
directors on or before April 29, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2013. 
10(e)* Deferral Plan for Directors of the former Wells Fargo. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
former Wells Fargo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1997. 
Amendment to Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2004. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2003. 
10(f)* Supplemental 401(k) Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 4, 2009. 
Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective January 1,
2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022. 
Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective January 1,
2021. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2020. 
Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective January 1,
2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2020. 
Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective December
31, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2018. 
Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective July 1, 2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017. 
Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective
January 1, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2014. 
10(g)* Supplemental Cash Balance Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 4, 2009. 
Amendment to Supplemental Cash Balance Plan, effective
January 1, 2022 . Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022. 
16        
          
        
    
       
          
        
    
       
          
        
    
                 
        
    
           
        
     
                
        
     
           
        
     
            
        
    
      
             
        
    
        
             
        
    
        
              
      
    
       
           
        
    
                 
        
     
                 
        
    
                 
        
    
                 
        
    
                 
        
    
                 
        
    
            
      
         
   
      
          
       
     
      
          
       
     
      
          
       
     
        
        
       
     
            
       
     
             
       
     
            
       
     
             
       
     
      
             
       
     
        
             
       
     
        
              
     
     
      
           
       
     
                
       
     
        
        
       
     
                
       
     
                
       
     
                
       
     
        
        
       
     
             
     
        
 Exhibit 
Number Description Location 
Amendment to Supplemental Cash Balance Plan, effective
January 1, 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2020. 
Amendment to Supplemental Cash Balance Plan, effective
February 1, 2019. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2018. 
Amendment to Supplemental Cash Balance Plan, effective
December 31, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2019. 
Amendment to Supplemental Cash Balance Plan, effective July 1,
2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017. 
10(h)* Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990. 
Amendment to Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1992. 
10(i)* Description of Relocation Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2003. 
10(j)* Description of Chairman/CEO Post-Retirement Policy. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2008. 
10(k)* Description of the Company’s Non-Employee Director
Compensation Program, effective April 1, 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022. 
10(l)* Description of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. Non-Employee Director
Compensation Program, effective April 1, 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022. 
10(m)* Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Elective Deferral Plan
(as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) to
Wachovia Corporation’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed December 29, 2008. 
Amendment to Wachovia Corporation Elective Deferral Plan,
effective January 1, 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022. 
Amendment to Elective Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
Amendment to Elective Deferral Plan, effective December 31, 
2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
Amendment to Elective Deferral Plan, effective July 1, 2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
Amendment to Elective Deferral Plan, effective August 1, 2016. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
Amendment to Elective Deferral Plan, effective June 21, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
Amendment to Elective Deferral Plan, effective December 14, 
2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021. 
10(n)* Wachovia Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(d) to
Wachovia Corporation’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997. 
17       
           
      
    
              
      
    
           
      
        
       
           
        
    
       
           
        
    
       
           
        
    
       
           
        
    
       
           
        
    
      
         
      
    
        
         
      
    
      
        
         
            
        
    
          
        
    
                 
       
   
   
      
           
     
     
       
       
     
     
           
     
        
      
           
       
     
      
           
       
     
      
           
       
     
      
           
       
     
      
           
       
     
     
        
     
     
     
        
     
     
      
       
        
            
       
     
           
       
     
                  
      
   
 Exhibit 
Number Description Location 
10(o)* Wachovia Corporation Supplemental Executive Long-Term Disability
Plan, as amended and restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (99) to
Wachovia Corporation’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed January 5, 2005. 
10(p)* Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
Wachovia Corporation’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed December 29, 2008. 
Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(gg) to
Wachovia Corporation’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002. 
Amendment to Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan,
effective January 1, 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022. 
Amendment to Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan,
effective January 1, 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2020. 
Amendment to Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan,
effective December 31, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2018. 
Amendment to Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan,
effective July 1, 2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017. 
Amendments to Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan,
effective August 1, 2016. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2016. 
Amendment 2008-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to
Wachovia Corporation’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed December 29, 2008. 
Amendment 2007-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
Wachovia Corporation’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed December 20, 2007. 
10(q)* Amended and Restated SouthTrust Corporation Additional
Retirement Benefit Plan (Pension) effective July 15, 1992,
Addendum thereto dated April 20, 1994, and Amendment 2008-1
thereto dated December 29, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(bb) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2014. 
10(r)* Key/Specified Employee Policy. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2018. 
10(s)* Offer Letter to Charles W. Scharf, dated September 26, 2019. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
September 27, 2019. 
18      
    
        
               
        
    
       
   
         
      
          
     
         
           
     
         
           
     
          
     
      
      
      
      
         
  
   
  
   
        
       
         
               
       
     
          
      
         
        
          
       
         
          
      
         
          
      
         
   
        
         
         
         
         
            
   
     
  
 Exhibit 
Number Description Location 
13 2022 Annual Report to Shareholders. Filed herewith. 
21 Subsidiaries of the Company. Filed herewith. 
22 Subsidiary guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities and 
affiliates whose securities collateralize securities of the registrant. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 22 to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2020. 
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Filed herewith. 
24 Powers of Attorney. Filed herewith. 
31(a) Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed herewith. 
31(b) Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed herewith. 
32(a) Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
18 U.S.C. § 1350. Furnished herewith. 
32(b) Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
18 U.S.C. § 1350. Furnished herewith. 
99 Description of Replacement Capital Covenants of Wells Fargo and
Wachovia. Filed herewith. 
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. Filed herewith. 
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. Filed herewith. 
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. Filed herewith. 
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. Filed herewith. 
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document. Filed herewith. 
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as Inline XBRL and contained 
in Exhibit 101. 
ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 
Not applicable. 
19  
                         
                
 
   
 
   
  
    
 
                      
            
 
   
  
    
  
  
   
  
        
  
  
   
  
        
  
  
 
                      
   
 
        
         
      
       
   
  
  
   
                       
                
    
     
   
     
                      
             
     
   
     
   
   
     
   
        
   
   
     
   
        
   
   
                      
    
      
      
      
             
       
   
   
     
   
   
   
 SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report 
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 21, 2023. 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 
By: /s/ CHARLES W. SCHARF 
Charles W. Scharf 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on 
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
By: /s/ CHARLES W. SCHARF 
Charles W. Scharf 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer) 
February 21, 2023 
By: /s/ MICHAEL P. SANTOMASSIMO 
Michael P. Santomassimo 
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 
February 21, 2023 
By: /s/ MUNEERA S. CARR 
Muneera S. Carr 
Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 
February 21, 2023 
The Directors of Wells Fargo & Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney empowering Steven D. Black to sign this 
document on their behalf. 
Steven D. Black Richard K. Davis Felicia F. Norwood Charles W. Scharf 
Mark A. Chancy Wayne M. Hewett Richard B. Payne, Jr. Suzanne M. Vautrinot 
Celeste A. Clark CeCelia G. Morken Juan A. Pujadas 
Theodore F. Craver, Jr. Maria R. Morris Ronald L. Sargent 
By: /s/ STEVEN D. BLACK 
Steven D. Black 
Director and Attorney-in-fact 
February 21, 2023 
20 