	
id
UNITED	STATES
SECURITIES	AND	EXCHANGE	COMMISSION
Washington,	D.C.	20549
FORM	
10-K
(Mark	One)
☒
ANNUAL	REPORT	PURSUANT	TO	SECTION	13	OR	15(d)	OF	THE	SECURITIES	EXCHANGE	ACT	OF	1934
For	the	fiscal	year	ended	
December	31,	
2022
OR
☐
TRANSITION	REPORT	PURSUANT	TO	SECTION	13	OR	15(d)	OF	THE	SECURITIES	EXCHANGE	ACT	OF	1934
For	the	transition	period	from	_________	to	_________
Commission	File	Number:	
001-34756
Tesla,	Inc.
(Exact	name	of	registrant	as	specified	in	its	charter)
		
Delaware
	
91-2197729
(State	or	other	jurisdiction	of
incorporation	or	organization)
	
(I.R.S.	Employer
Identification	No.)
		
1	Tesla	Road
Austin
,	
Texas
	
	
78725
(Address	of	principal	executive	offices)
	
(Zip	Code)
(
512
)	
516-8177
(Registrant’s	telephone	number,	including	area	code)
Securities	registered	pursuant	to	Section	12(b)	of	the	Act:
	
Title	of	each	class
Trading	Symbol(s)
Name	of	each	exchange	on	which	registered
Common	stock
TSLA
The	Nasdaq	Global	Select	Market
	
Securities	registered	pursuant	to	Section	12(g)	of	the	Act:
None
Indicate	by	check	mark	whether	the	registrant	is	a	well-known	seasoned	issuer,	as	defined	in	Rule	405	of	the	Securities	Act.				
Yes
		
☒
				No		
☐
Indicate	by	check	mark	if	the	registrant	is	not	required	to	file	reports	pursuant	to	Section	13	or	15(d)	of	the	Act.				Yes		
☐
				
No
		
☒
Indicate	by	check	mark	whether	the	registrant	(1)	has	filed	all	reports	required	to	be	filed	by	Section	13	or	15(d)	of	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934	(“Exchange	Act”)
	
during	the	preceding	12	months	(or	for	such	shorter	period	that	the	registrant	was	required	to	file	such	reports),	and	(2)	has	been	subject	to	such	filing	requirements	for	the	past
	
90	days.				
Yes
		
☒
				No		
☐
Indicate	by	check	mark	whether	the	registrant	has	submitted	electronically	every	Interactive	Data	File	required	to	be	submitted	pursuant	to	Rule	405	of	Regulation	S-T
	
(§232.405	of	this	chapter)	during	the	preceding	12	months	(or	for	such	shorter	period	that	the	registrant	was	required	to	submit	such	files).				
Yes
		
☒
				No		
☐
Indicate	by	check	mark	whether	the	registrant	is	a	large	accelerated	filer,	an	accelerated	filer,	a	non-accelerated	filer,	a	smaller	reporting	company,	or	an	emerging	growth
	
company.	See	the	definitions	of	“large	accelerated	filer,”	“accelerated	filer,”	“smaller	reporting	company”	and	“emerging	growth	company”	in	Rule	12b-2	of	the	Exchange	Act:
	
Large	accelerated	filer
		
☒
		
		
		
Accelerated	filer
		
☐
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
Non-accelerated	filer
		
☐
		
		
		
Smaller	reporting	company
		
☐
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
Emerging	growth	company
		
☐
		
		
		
		
		
		
	
If	an	emerging	growth	company,	indicate	by	check	mark	if	the	registrant	has	elected	not	to	use	the	extended	transition	period	for	complying	with	any	new	or	revised	financial	accounting	standards	provided
	
pursuant	to	Section	13(a)	of	the	Exchange	Act.	
☐
Indicate	by	check	mark	whether	the	Registrant	has	filed	a	report	on	and	attestation	to	its	management’s	assessment	of	the	effectiveness	of	its	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	under	Section	404(b)	of	the
	
Sarbanes-Oxley	Act	(15	U.S.C.	7262(b))	by	the	registered	public	accounting	firm	that	prepared	or	issued	its	audit	report.	
☒
Indicate	by	check	mark	whether	the	registrant	is	a	shell	company	(as	defined	in	Rule	12b-2	of	the	Exchange	Act).				Yes		
☐
				No		
☒
The	aggregate	market	value	of	voting	stock	held	by	non-affiliates	of	the	registrant,	as	of	June	30,	2022,	the	last	day	of	the	registrant’s	most	recently	completed	second	fiscal	quarter,	was	$
580.48
	billion	(based
	
on	the	closing	price	for	shares	of	the	registrant’s	Common	Stock	as	reported	by	the	NASDAQ	Global	Select	Market	on	June	30,	2022).	Shares	of	Common	Stock	held	by	each	executive	officer,	director,	and	holder	of	5%	or
	
more	of	the	outstanding	Common	Stock	have	been	excluded	in	that	such	persons	may	be	deemed	to	be	affiliates.	This	determination	of	affiliate	status	is	not	necessarily	a	conclusive	determination	for	other	purposes.
As	of	January	25,	2023,	there	were	
3,164,102,701
	shares	of	the	registrant’s	common	stock	outstanding.
DOCUMENTS	INCORPORATED	BY	REFERENCE
Portions	of	the	registrant’s	Proxy	Statement	for	the	2023	Annual	Meeting	of	Stockholders	are	incorporated	herein	by	reference	in	Part	III	of	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	to	the	extent	stated	herein.	Such
	
proxy	statement	will	be	filed	with	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	within	120	days	of	the	registrant’s	fiscal	year	ended	December	31,	2022.
	
		
TESLA,	INC.
ANNUAL	REPORT	ON	FORM	10-K	FOR	THE	YEAR	ENDED	DECEMBER	31,	2022
INDEX
	
		
		
		
	
Page
PART	I.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Item	1.
	
Business
	
4
Item	1A.
	
Risk	Factors
	
14
Item	1B.
	
Unresolved	Staff	Comments
	
29
Item	2.
	
Properties
	
29
Item	3.
	
Legal	Proceedings
	
29
Item	4.
	
Mine	Safety	Disclosures
	
29
	
	
	
PART	II.
	
	
	
	
	
Item	5.
	
	
Market	for	Registrant's	Common	Equity,	Related	Stockholder	Matters	and	Issuer	Purchases	of	Equity	Securities
	
30
Item	6.
	
[Reserved]
	
31
Item	7.
	
Management's	Discussion	and	Analysis	of	Financial	Condition	and	Results	of	Operations
	
32
Item	7A.
	
Quantitative	and	Qualitative	Disclosures	about	Market	Risk
	
44
Item	8.
	
Financial	Statements	and	Supplementary	Data
	
45
Item	9.
	
Changes	in	and	Disagreements	with	Accountants	on	Accounting	and	Financial	Disclosure
	
90
Item	9A.
	
Controls	and	Procedures
	
90
Item	9B.
	
Other	Information
	
90
Item	9C.
	
Disclosure	Regarding	Foreign	Jurisdictions	that	Prevent	Inspections
	
90
	
	
	
PART	III.
	
	
	
	
	
Item	10.
	
Directors,	Executive	Officers	and	Corporate	Governance
	
91
Item	11.
	
Executive	Compensation
	
91
Item	12.
	
Security	Ownership	of	Certain	Beneficial	Owners	and	Management	and	Related	Stockholder	Matters
	
91
Item	13.
	
Certain	Relationships	and	Related	Transactions,	and	Director	Independence
	
91
Item	14.
	
Principal	Accountant	Fees	and	Services
	
91
	
	
	
PART	IV.
	
	
	
	
	
	
Item	15.
	
Exhibits	and	Financial	Statement	Schedules
	
92
Item	16.
	
Summary
	
106
	
	
	
Signatures
	
107
	
	
	
		
Forward-Looking	Statements
The	discussions	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	contain	forward-looking	statements	reflecting	our	current	expectations	that	involve	risks	and
	
uncertainties.	These	forward-looking	statements	include,	but	are	not	limited	to,	statements	concerning	any	potential	future	impact	of	the	coronavirus
	
disease	(“COVID-19”)	pandemic	on	our	business,	supply	chain	constraints,	our	strategy,	competition,	future	operations	and	production	capacity,	future
	
financial	position,	future	revenues,	projected	costs,	profitability,	expected	cost	reductions,	capital	adequacy,	expectations	regarding	demand	and
	
acceptance	for	our	technologies,	growth	opportunities	and	trends	in	the	markets	in	which	we	operate,	prospects	and	plans	and	objectives	of
	
management.	The	words	“anticipates,”	“believes,”	“could,”	“estimates,”	“expects,”	“intends,”	“may,”	“plans,”	“projects,”	“will,”	“would”	and	similar
	
expressions	are	intended	to	identify	forward-looking	statements,	although	not	all	forward-looking	statements	contain	these	identifying	words.	We	may
	
not	actually	achieve	the	plans,	intentions	or	expectations	disclosed	in	our	forward-looking	statements	and	you	should	not	place	undue	reliance	on	our
	
forward-looking	statements.	Actual	results	or	events	could	differ	materially	from	the	plans,	intentions	and	expectations	disclosed	in	the	forward-looking
	
statements	that	we	make.	These	forward-looking	statements	involve	risks	and	uncertainties	that	could	cause	our	actual	results	to	differ	materially	from
	
those	in	the	forward-looking	statements,	including,	without	limitation,	the	risks	set	forth	in	Part	I,	Item	1A,	“Risk	Factors”	in	this	Annual	Report	on
	
Form	10-K	and	in	our	other	filings	with	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	(the	“SEC”).	We	do	not	assume	any	obligation	to	update	any	forward-
looking	statements.
	
		
PART	I
ITEM	1.	
BUSINESS
Overview
We	design,	develop,	manufacture,	sell	and	lease	high-performance	fully	electric	vehicles	and	energy	generation	and	storage	systems,	and	offer
	
services	related	to	our	products.	We	generally	sell	our	products	directly	to	customers,	and	continue	to	grow	our	customer-facing	infrastructure	through
	
a	global	network	of	vehicle	service	centers,	Mobile	Service,	body	shops,	Supercharger	stations	and	Destination	Chargers	to	accelerate	the	widespread
	
adoption	of	our	products.	We	emphasize	performance,	attractive	styling	and	the	safety	of	our	users	and	workforce	in	the	design	and	manufacture	of	our
	
products	and	are	continuing	to	develop	full	self-driving	technology	for	improved	safety.	We	also	strive	to	lower	the	cost	of	ownership	for	our	customers
	
through	continuous	efforts	to	reduce	manufacturing	costs	and	by	offering	financial	and	other	services	tailored	to	our	products.
	
Our	mission	is	to	accelerate	the	world’s	transition	to	sustainable	energy.	We	believe	that	this	mission,	along	with	our	engineering	expertise,
	
vertically	integrated	business	model	and	focus	on	user	experience	differentiate	us	from	other	companies.
	
Segment	Information
We	operate	as	two	reportable	segments:	(i)	automotive	and	(ii)	energy	generation	and	storage.
The	automotive	segment	includes	the	design,	development,	manufacturing,	sales	and	leasing	of	high-performance	fully	electric	vehicles	as	well
	
as	sales	of	automotive	regulatory	credits.	Additionally,	the	automotive	segment	also	includes	services	and	other,	which	includes	non-warranty	after-
sales	vehicle	services	and	parts,	sales	of	used	vehicles,	retail	merchandise,	paid	Supercharging	and	vehicle	insurance	revenue.	The	energy	generation
	
and	storage	segment	includes	the	design,	manufacture,	installation,	sales	and	leasing	of	solar	energy	generation	and	energy	storage	products	and
	
related	services	and	sales	of	solar	energy	systems	incentives.
Our	Products	and	Services
Automotive
We	currently	manufacture	four	different	consumer	vehicles	–	the	Model	3,	Y,	S	and	X.	Model	3	is	a	four-door	mid-size	sedan	that	we	designed	for
	
manufacturability	with	a	base	price	for	mass-market	appeal.	Model	Y	is	a	compact	sport	utility	vehicle	(“SUV”)	built	on	the	Model	3	platform	with
	
seating	for	up	to	seven	adults.	Model	S	is	a	four-door	full-size	sedan	and	Model	X	is	a	mid-size	SUV	with	seating	for	up	to	seven	adults.	Model	S	and
	
Model	X	feature	the	highest	performance	characteristics	and	longest	ranges	that	we	offer	in	a	sedan	and	SUV,	respectively.
	
In	December	2022,	we	began	early	production	and	deliveries	of	the	Tesla	Semi,	our	first	commercial	electric	vehicle.	We	have	also	announced
	
several	planned	electric	vehicles	to	address	additional	vehicle	markets,	including	specialized	consumer	electric	vehicles	in	Cybertruck	and	the	new
	
Tesla	Roadster.	We	plan	to	continue	leveraging	developments	in	our	proprietary	Full	Self-Driving	(“FSD”),	battery	cell	and	other	technologies.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
Energy	Storage	Products
Powerwall	and	Megapack	are	our	lithium-ion	battery	energy	storage	products.	Powerwall	is	designed	to	store	energy	at	a	home	or	small
	
commercial	facility.	Megapack	is	an	energy	storage	solution	for	commercial,	industrial,	utility	and	energy	generation	customers,	multiple	of	which	may
	
be	grouped	together	to	form	larger	installations	of	gigawatt	hours	(“GWh”)	or	greater	capacity.
	
We	also	continue	to	develop	software	capabilities	for	remotely	controlling	and	dispatching	our	energy	storage	systems	across	a	wide	range	of
	
markets	and	applications,	including	through	our	real-time	energy	control	and	optimization	platforms.
Solar	Energy	Offerings
We	sell	retrofit	solar	energy	systems	to	customers	and	channel	partners	and	also	make	them	available	through	power	purchase	agreement
	
(“PPA”)	arrangements.	We	purchase	most	of	the	components	for	our	retrofit	solar	energy	systems	from	multiple	sources	to	ensure	competitive	pricing
	
and	adequate	supply.	We	also	design	and	manufacture	certain	components	for	our	solar	energy	products.
We	sell	our	Solar	Roof,	which	combines	premium	glass	roof	tiles	with	energy	generation,	directly	to	customers,	as	well	as	through	channel
	
customers.	We	continue	to	improve	our	installation	capability	and	efficiency,	including	through	collaboration	with	real	estate	developers	and	builders	on
	
new	homes.
4	
Technology
Automotive
Battery	and	Powertrain
Our	core	vehicle	technology	competencies	include	powertrain	engineering	and	manufacturing	and	our	ability	to	design	vehicles	that	utilize	the
	
unique	advantages	of	an	electric	powertrain.	We	have	designed	our	proprietary	powertrain	systems	to	be	adaptable,	efficient,	reliable	and	cost-effective
	
while	withstanding	the	rigors	of	an	automotive	environment.	We	offer	dual	motor	powertrain	vehicles,	which	use	two	electric	motors	to	maximize
	
traction	and	performance	in	an	all-wheel	drive	configuration,	as	well	as	vehicle	powertrain	technology	featuring	three	electric	motors	for	further
	
increased	performance	in	certain	versions	of	Model	S	and	Model	X	and	the	Tesla	Semi.
We	maintain	extensive	testing	and	R&D	capabilities	for	battery	cells,	packs	and	systems,	and	have	built	an	expansive	body	of	knowledge	on
	
lithium-ion	cell	chemistry	types	and	performance	characteristics.	In	order	to	enable	a	greater	supply	of	cells	for	our	products	with	higher	energy	density
	
at	lower	costs,	we	have	developed	a	new	proprietary	lithium-ion	battery	cell	and	improved	manufacturing	processes.
Vehicle	Control	and	Infotainment	Software
The	performance	and	safety	systems	of	our	vehicles	and	their	battery	packs	utilize	sophisticated	control	software.	Control	systems	in	our	vehicles
	
optimize	performance,	customize	vehicle	behavior,	manage	charging	and	control	all	infotainment	functions.	We	develop	almost	all	of	this	software,
	
including	most	of	the	user	interfaces,	internally	and	update	our	vehicles’	software	regularly	through	over-the-air	updates.
Self-Driving	Development	and	Artificial	Intelligence
	
We	have	expertise	in	developing	technologies,	systems	and	software	to	enable	self-driving	vehicles	using	primarily	vision-based	technologies.
	
Our	FSD	Computer	runs	our	neural	networks	in	our	vehicles,	and	we	are	also	developing	additional	computer	hardware	to	better	enable	the	massive
	
amounts	of	field	data	captured	by	our	vehicles	to	continually	train	and	improve	these	neural	networks	for	real-world	performance.
Currently,	we	offer	in	our	vehicles	certain	advanced	driver	assist	systems	under	our	Autopilot	and	FSD	options.	Although	at	present	the	driver	is
	
ultimately	responsible	for	controlling	the	vehicle,	our	systems	provide	safety	and	convenience	functionality	that	relieves	drivers	of	the	most	tedious	and
	
potentially	dangerous	aspects	of	road	travel	much	like	the	system	that	airplane	pilots	use,	when	conditions	permit.	As	with	other	vehicle	systems,	we
	
improve	these	functions	in	our	vehicles	over	time	through	over-the-air	updates.
We	intend	to	establish	in	the	future	an	autonomous	Tesla	ride-hailing	network,	which	we	expect	would	also	allow	us	to	access	a	new	customer
	
base	even	as	modes	of	transportation	evolve.
We	are	also	applying	our	artificial	intelligence	learnings	from	self-driving	technology	to	the	field	of	robotics.	For	example,	in	2022	we	previewed
	
Optimus,	a	robotic	humanoid	which	is	controlled	by	the	same	AI	system.
	
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
Energy	Storage	Products
We	leverage	many	of	the	component-level	technologies	from	our	vehicles	in	our	energy	storage	products.	By	taking	a	modular	approach	to	the
	
design	of	battery	systems,	we	can	optimize	manufacturing	capacity	of	our	energy	storage	products.	Additionally,	our	expertise	in	power	electronics
	
enables	our	battery	systems	to	interconnect	with	electricity	grids	while	providing	fast-acting	systems	for	power	injection	and	absorption.	We	have	also
	
developed	software	to	remotely	control	and	dispatch	our	energy	storage	systems.
Solar	Energy	Systems
We	have	engineered	Solar	Roof	over	numerous	iterations	to	combine	aesthetic	appeal	and	durability	with	power	generation.	The	efficiency	of	our
	
solar	energy	products	is	aided	by	our	own	solar	inverter,	which	incorporates	our	power	electronics	technologies.	We	designed	both	products	to
	
integrate	with	Powerwall.
5	
Design	and	Engineering
Automotive
We	have	established	significant	in-house	capabilities	in	the	design	and	test	engineering	of	electric	vehicles	and	their	components	and	systems.
	
Our	team	has	significant	experience	in	computer-aided	design	as	well	as	durability,	strength	and	crash	test	simulations,	which	reduces	the	product
	
development	time	of	new	models.	We	have	also	achieved	complex	engineering	feats	in	stamping,	casting	and	thermal	systems,	and	developed	a	method
	
to	integrate	batteries	directly	with	vehicle	body	structures	without	separate	battery	packs	to	optimize	manufacturability,	weight,	range	and	cost
	
characteristics.
We	are	also	expanding	our	manufacturing	operations	globally	while	taking	action	to	localize	our	vehicle	designs	and	production	for	particular
	
markets,	including	country-specific	market	demands	and	factory	optimizations	for	local	workforces.	As	we	increase	our	capabilities,	particularly	in	the
	
areas	of	automation,	die-making	and	line-building,	we	are	also	making	strides	in	the	simulations	modeling	these	capabilities	prior	to	construction.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
Our	expertise	in	electrical,	mechanical,	civil	and	software	engineering	allows	us	to	design,	engineer,	manufacture	and	install	energy	generating
	
and	storage	products	and	components,	including	at	the	residential	through	utility	scale.	For	example,	the	modular	design	of	our	Megapack	utility-scale
	
battery	line	is	intended	to	significantly	reduce	the	amount	of	assembly	required	in	the	field.	We	also	customize	solutions	including	our	energy	storage
	
products,	solar	energy	systems	and/or	Solar	Roof	for	customers	to	meet	their	specific	needs.
	
Sales	and	Marketing
Historically,	we	have	been	able	to	generate	significant	media	coverage	of	our	company	and	our	products,	and	we	believe	we	will	continue	to	do
	
so.	Such	media	coverage	and	word	of	mouth	are	the	current	primary	drivers	of	our	sales	leads	and	have	helped	us	achieve	sales	without	traditional
	
advertising	and	at	relatively	low	marketing	costs.
	
Automotive
Direct	Sales
Our	vehicle	sales	channels	currently	include	our	website	and	an	international	network	of	company-owned	stores.	In	some	jurisdictions,	we	also
	
have	galleries	to	educate	and	inform	customers	about	our	products,	but	such	locations	do	not	transact	in	the	sale	of	vehicles.	We	believe	this
	
infrastructure	enables	us	to	better	control	costs	of	inventory,	manage	warranty	service	and	pricing,	educate	consumers	about	electric	vehicles,	maintain
	
and	strengthen	the	Tesla	brand	and	obtain	rapid	customer	feedback.
	
We	reevaluate	our	sales	strategy	both	globally	and	at	a	location-by-location	level	from	time	to	time	to	optimize	our	sales	channels.	However,
	
sales	of	vehicles	in	the	automobile	industry	tend	to	be	cyclical	in	many	markets,	which	may	expose	us	to	volatility	from	time	to	time.
Used	Vehicle	Sales
Our	used	vehicle	business	supports	new	vehicle	sales	by	integrating	the	trade-in	of	a	customer’s	existing	Tesla	or	non-Tesla	vehicle	with	the	sale
	
of	a	new	or	used	Tesla	vehicle.	The	Tesla	and	non-Tesla	vehicles	we	acquire	as	trade-ins	are	subsequently	remarketed,	either	directly	by	us	or	through
	
third	parties.	We	also	remarket	used	Tesla	vehicles	acquired	from	other	sources	including	lease	returns.
Public	Charging
We	have	a	growing	global	network	of	Tesla	Superchargers,	which	are	our	industrial-grade,	high-speed	vehicle	chargers.	Where	possible,	we	co-
locate	Superchargers	with	our	solar	and	energy	storage	systems	to	reduce	costs	and	promote	renewable	power.	Supercharger	stations	are	typically
	
placed	along	well-traveled	routes	and	in	and	around	dense	city	centers	to	allow	vehicle	owners	the	ability	to	enjoy	quick,	reliable	charging	along	an
	
extensive	network	with	convenient	stops.	Use	of	the	Supercharger	network	either	requires	payment	of	a	fee	or	is	free	under	certain	sales	programs.	In
	
November	2021,	we	began	to	offer	Supercharger	access	to	non-Tesla	vehicles	in	certain	locations	in	support	of	our	mission	to	accelerate	the	world’s
	
transition	to	sustainable	energy.
	
We	also	work	with	a	wide	variety	of	hospitality,	retail	and	public	destinations,	as	well	as	businesses	with	commuting	employees,	to	offer
	
additional	charging	options	for	our	customers,	as	well	as	single-family	homeowners	and	multi-family	residential	entities,	to	deploy	home	charging
	
solutions.
6	
In-App	Upgrades
	
As	our	vehicles	are	capable	of	being	updated	remotely	over-the-air,	our	customers	may	purchase	additional	paid	options	and	features	through	the
	
Tesla	app	or	through	the	in-vehicle	user	interface.	We	expect	that	this	functionality	will	also	allow	us	to	offer	certain	options	and	features	on	a
	
subscription	basis	in	the	future.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
We	market	and	sell	our	solar	and	energy	storage	products	to	residential,	commercial	and	industrial	customers	and	utilities	through	a	variety	of
	
channels,	including	through	our	website,	stores	and	galleries,	as	well	as	through	our	network	of	channel	partners,	and	in	the	case	of	some	commercial
	
customers,	through	PPA	transactions.	We	emphasize	simplicity,	standardization	and	accessibility	to	make	it	easy	and	cost-effective	for	customers	to
	
adopt	clean	energy,	while	reducing	our	customer	acquisition	costs.
	
Service	and	Warranty
Automotive
Service
We	provide	service	for	our	electric	vehicles	at	our	company-owned	service	locations	and	through	Tesla	Mobile	Service	technicians	who	perform
	
work	remotely	at	customers’	homes	or	other	locations.	Performing	vehicle	service	ourselves	allows	us	to	identify	problems	and	implement	solutions	and
	
improvements	faster,	and	optimize	logistics	and	inventory	better,	than	traditional	automobile	manufacturers	and	their	dealer	networks.	The	connectivity
	
of	our	vehicles	also	allows	us	to	diagnose	and	remedy	many	problems	remotely	and	proactively.
Vehicle	Limited	Warranties	and	Extended	Service	Plans
We	provide	a	manufacturer’s	limited	warranty	on	all	new	and	used	Tesla	vehicles	we	sell,	which	may	include	separate	limited	warranties	on
	
certain	components,	specific	types	of	damage	or	battery	capacity	retention.	We	also	currently	offer	extended	service	plans	that	provide	coverage
	
beyond	the	new	vehicle	limited	warranties	for	certain	models	in	specified	regions.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
We	provide	service	and	repairs	to	our	energy	product	customers,	including	under	warranty	where	applicable.	We	generally	provide
	
manufacturer’s	limited	warranties	with	our	energy	storage	products	and	offer	certain	extended	limited	warranties	that	are	available	at	the	time	of
	
purchase	of	the	system.	If	we	install	a	system,	we	also	provide	certain	limited	warranties	on	our	installation	workmanship.
	
For	retrofit	solar	energy	systems,	we	provide	separate	limited	warranties	for	workmanship	and	against	roof	leaks,	and	for	Solar	Roof,	we	also
	
provide	limited	warranties	for	defects	and	weatherization.	For	components	not	manufactured	by	us,	we	generally	pass-through	the	applicable
	
manufacturers’	warranties.
As	part	of	our	solar	energy	system	and	energy	storage	contracts,	we	may	provide	the	customer	with	performance	guarantees	that	commit	that
	
the	underlying	system	will	meet	or	exceed	the	minimum	energy	generation	or	performance	requirements	specified	in	the	contract.
Financial	Services
Automotive
Purchase	Financing	and	Leases
We	offer	leasing	and/or	loan	financing	arrangements	for	our	vehicles	in	certain	jurisdictions	in	North	America,	Europe	and	Asia	ourselves	and
	
through	various	financial	institutions.	Under	certain	of	such	programs,	we	have	provided	resale	value	guarantees	or	buyback	guarantees	that	may
	
obligate	us	to	repurchase	the	subject	vehicles	at	pre-determined	values.
	
Insurance
In	2021,	we	launched	our	insurance	product	using	real-time	driving	behavior	in	select	states,	which	offers	rates	that	are	often	better	than	other
	
alternatives	and	promotes	safer	driving.	Our	insurance	products	are	currently	available	in	12	states	and	we	plan	to	expand	the	markets	in	which	we
	
offer	insurance	products,	as	part	of	our	ongoing	effort	to	decrease	the	total	cost	of	ownership	for	our	customers.
7	
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
We	offer	certain	financing	options	to	our	solar	customers,	which	enable	the	customer	to	purchase	and	own	a	solar	energy	system,	Solar	Roof	or
	
integrated	solar	and	Powerwall	system.	Our	solar	PPAs,	offered	primarily	to	commercial	customers,	charge	a	fee	per	kilowatt-hour	based	on	the	amount
	
of	electricity	produced	by	our	solar	energy	systems.
	
Manufacturing
We	currently	have	manufacturing	facilities	in	the	US	in	Northern	California,	in	Buffalo,	New	York,	Gigafactory	New	York;	in	Austin,	Texas,
	
Gigafactory	Texas	and	near	Reno,	Nevada,	Gigafactory	Nevada.	At	these	facilities,	we	manufacture	and	assemble,	among	other	things,	vehicles,	certain
	
vehicle	parts	and	components,	such	as	our	battery	packs	and	battery	cells,	energy	storage	components	and	solar	products	and	components.
	
Internationally,	we	also	have	manufacturing	facilities	in	China	(Gigafactory	Shanghai)	and	Germany	(Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg),	which
	
allows	us	to	increase	the	affordability	of	our	vehicles	for	customers	in	local	markets	by	reducing	transportation	and	manufacturing	costs	and	eliminating
	
the	impact	of	unfavorable	tariffs.	Generally,	we	continue	to	expand	production	capacity	at	our	existing	facilities.	We	also	intend	to	further	increase	cost-
competitiveness	in	our	significant	markets	by	strategically	adding	local	manufacturing.
	
Supply	Chain
Our	products	use	thousands	of	parts	that	are	sourced	from	hundreds	of	suppliers	across	the	world.	We	have	developed	close	relationships	with
	
vendors	of	key	parts	such	as	battery	cells,	electronics	and	complex	vehicle	assemblies.	Certain	components	purchased	from	these	suppliers	are	shared
	
or	are	similar	across	many	product	lines,	allowing	us	to	take	advantage	of	pricing	efficiencies	from	economies	of	scale.
As	is	the	case	for	some	automotive	companies,	some	of	our	procured	components	and	systems	are	sourced	from	single	suppliers.	Where	multiple
	
sources	are	available	for	certain	key	components,	we	work	to	qualify	multiple	suppliers	for	them	where	it	is	sensible	to	do	so	in	order	to	minimize
	
potential	production	risks	due	to	disruptions	in	their	supply.	We	also	mitigate	risk	by	maintaining	safety	stock	for	key	parts	and	assemblies	and	die
	
banks	for	components	with	lengthy	procurement	lead	times.
Our	products	use	various	raw	materials	including	aluminum,	steel,	cobalt,	lithium,	nickel	and	copper.	Pricing	for	these	materials	is	governed	by
	
market	conditions	and	may	fluctuate	due	to	various	factors	outside	of	our	control,	such	as	supply	and	demand	and	market	speculation.	We	strive	to
	
execute	long-term	supply	contracts	for	such	materials	at	competitive	pricing	when	feasible,	and	we	currently	believe	that	we	have	adequate	access	to
	
raw	materials	supplies	to	meet	the	needs	of	our	operations.
Governmental	Programs,	Incentives	and	Regulations
Globally,	the	ownership	of	our	products	by	our	customers	is	impacted	by	various	government	credits,	incentives,	and	policies.	Our	business	and
	
products	are	also	subject	to	numerous	governmental	regulations	that	vary	among	jurisdictions.
The	operation	of	our	business	is	also	impacted	by	various	government	programs,	incentives,	and	other	arrangements.	See	Note	2,	
Summary	of
	
Significant	Accounting	Policies
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	for	further	details.
Programs	and	Incentives
Inflation	Reduction	Act
	
On	August	16,	2022,	the	Inflation	Reduction	Act	of	2022	(“IRA”)	was	enacted	into	law	and	is	effective	for	taxable	years	beginning	after	December
	
31,	2022,	and	remains	subject	to	future	guidance	releases.	The	IRA	includes	multiple	incentives	to	promote	clean	energy,	electric	vehicles,	battery	and
	
energy	storage	manufacture	or	purchase,	including	through	providing	tax	credits	to	consumers.	For	example,	qualifying	Tesla	customers	may	receive	up
	
to	$7,500	in	federal	tax	credits	for	the	purchase	of	qualified	electric	vehicles	in	the	U.S	through	2032.
Automotive	Regulatory	Credits
We	earn	tradable	credits	in	the	operation	of	our	business	under	various	regulations	related	to	zero-emission	vehicles	(“ZEVs”),	greenhouse	gas,
	
fuel	economy	and	clean	fuel.	We	sell	these	credits	to	other	regulated	entities	who	can	use	the	credits	to	comply	with	emission	standards	and	other
	
regulatory	requirements.	Sales	of	these	credits	are	recognized	within	automotive	regulatory	credits	revenue	in	our	consolidated	financial	statements
	
included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
8	
Energy	Storage	System	Incentives	and	Policies
While	the	regulatory	regime	for	energy	storage	projects	is	still	under	development,	there	are	various	policies,	incentives	and	financial
	
mechanisms	at	the	federal,	state	and	local	levels	that	support	the	adoption	of	energy	storage.
	
For	example,	energy	storage	systems	that	are	charged	using	solar	energy	may	be	eligible	for	the	solar	energy-related	U.S.	federal	tax	credits
	
described	below.	The	Federal	Energy	Regulatory	Commission	(“FERC”)	has	also	taken	steps	to	enable	the	participation	of	energy	storage	in	wholesale
	
energy	markets.	In	addition,	California	and	a	number	of	other	states	have	adopted	procurement	targets	for	energy	storage,	and	behind-the-meter
	
energy	storage	systems	qualify	for	funding	under	the	California	Self	Generation	Incentive	Program.	Our	customers	primarily	benefit	directly	under
	
these	programs.	In	certain	instances	our	customers	may	transfer	such	credits	to	us	as	contract	consideration.	In	such	transactions,	they	are	included	as
	
a	component	of	energy	generation	and	storage	revenues	in	our	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-
K.
	
Pursuant	to	the	IRA,	under	Sections	48,	48E	and	25D	of	the	Internal	Revenue	Code	(”IRC”),	standalone	energy	storage	technology	is	eligible	for
	
a	tax	credit	between	6%	and	50%	of	qualified	expenditures,	regardless	of	the	source	of	energy,	which	may	be	claimed	by	our	customers	for	storage
	
systems	they	purchase	or	by	us	for	arrangements	where	we	own	the	systems.	These	tax	credits	are	primarily	for	the	benefit	of	our	customers	and	are
	
currently	scheduled	to	phase-out	starting	in	2032	or	later.
	
Solar	Energy	System	Incentives	and	Policies
U.S.	federal,	state	and	local	governments	have	established	various	policies,	incentives	and	financial	mechanisms	to	reduce	the	cost	of	solar
	
energy	and	to	accelerate	the	adoption	of	solar	energy.	These	incentives	include	tax	credits,	cash	grants,	tax	abatements	and	rebates.
In	particular,	pursuant	to	the	IRA,	Sections	48,	48E	and	25D	of	the	IRC	provides	a	tax	credit	between	6%	and	70%	of	qualified	commercial	or
	
residential	expenditures	for	solar	energy	systems,	which	may	be	claimed	by	our	customers	for	systems	they	purchase,	or	by	us	for	arrangements	where
	
we	own	the	systems	for	properties	that	meet	statutory	requirements.	These	tax	credits	are	primarily	for	the	direct	benefit	of	our	customers	and	are
	
currently	scheduled	to	phase-out	starting	in	2023	or	later.
Regulations
Vehicle	Safety	and	Testing
In	the	U.S.,	our	vehicles	are	subject	to	regulation	by	the	National	Highway	Traffic	Safety	Administration	(“NHTSA”),	including	all	applicable
	
Federal	Motor	Vehicle	Safety	Standards	(“FMVSS”)	and	the	NHTSA	bumper	standard.	Numerous	FMVSS	apply	to	our	vehicles,	such	as	crash-
worthiness	and	occupant	protection	requirements.	Our	current	vehicles	fully	comply	and	we	expect	that	our	vehicles	in	the	future	will	fully	comply	with
	
all	applicable	FMVSS	with	limited	or	no	exemptions,	however,	FMVSS	are	subject	to	change	from	time	to	time.	As	a	manufacturer,	we	must	self-certify
	
that	our	vehicles	meet	all	applicable	FMVSS	and	the	NHTSA	bumper	standard,	or	otherwise	are	exempt,	before	the	vehicles	may	be	imported	or	sold	in
	
the	U.S.
	
We	are	also	required	to	comply	with	other	federal	laws	administered	by	NHTSA,	including	the	Corporate	Average	Fuel	Economy	standards,	Theft
	
Prevention	Act	requirements,	labeling	requirements	and	other	information	provided	to	customers	in	writing,	Early	Warning	Reporting	requirements
	
regarding	warranty	claims,	field	reports,	death	and	injury	reports	and	foreign	recalls,	a	Standing	General	Order	requiring	reports	regarding	crashes
	
involving	vehicles	equipped	with	advanced	driver	assistance	systems,	and	additional	requirements	for	cooperating	with	compliance	and	safety
	
investigations	and	recall	reporting.	The	U.S.	Automobile	Information	and	Disclosure	Act	also	requires	manufacturers	of	motor	vehicles	to	disclose
	
certain	information	regarding	the	manufacturer’s	suggested	retail	price,	optional	equipment	and	pricing.	In	addition,	federal	law	requires	inclusion	of
	
fuel	economy	ratings,	as	determined	by	the	U.S.	Department	of	Transportation	and	the	Environmental	Protection	Agency	(the	“EPA”),	and	New	Car
	
Assessment	Program	ratings	as	determined	by	NHTSA,	if	available.
	
Our	vehicles	sold	outside	of	the	U.S.	are	subject	to	similar	foreign	compliance,	safety,	environmental	and	other	regulations.	Many	of	those
	
regulations	are	different	from	those	applicable	in	the	U.S.	and	may	require	redesign	and/or	retesting.	Some	of	those	regulations	impact	or	prevent	the
	
rollout	of	new	vehicle	features.	Additionally,	the	European	Union	established	new	rules	regarding	additional	compliance	oversight	that	commenced	in
	
2020.
Self-Driving	Vehicles
Generally,	laws	pertaining	to	self-driving	vehicles	are	evolving	globally,	and	in	some	cases	may	create	restrictions	on	features	that	we	develop.
	
While	there	are	currently	no	federal	U.S.	regulations	pertaining	specifically	to	self-driving	vehicles	or	self-driving	equipment,	NHTSA	has	published
	
recommended	guidelines	on	self-driving	vehicles,	apart	from	the	FMVSS	and	manufacturer	reporting	obligations,	and	retains	the	authority	to
	
investigate	and/or	take	action	on	the	safety	or	compliance	of	any	vehicle,	equipment	or	features	operating	on	public	roads.	Certain	U.S.	states	also	have
	
legal	restrictions	on	the	operation,	registration	or	licensure	of	self-driving	vehicles,	and	many	other	states	are	considering	them.	This	regulatory
	
patchwork	increases	the	legal	complexity	with	respect	to	self-driving	vehicles	in	the	U.S.
	
9	
In	markets	that	follow	the	regulations	of	the	United	Nations	Economic	Commission	for	Europe,	some	requirements	restrict	the	design	of
	
advanced	driver-assistance	or	self-driving	features,	which	can	compromise	or	prevent	their	use	entirely.	Other	applicable	laws,	both	current	and
	
proposed,	may	hinder	the	path	and	timeline	to	introducing	self-driving	vehicles	for	sale	and	use	in	the	markets	where	they	apply.
	
Other	key	markets,	including	China,	continue	to	consider	self-driving	regulation.	Any	implemented	regulations	may	differ	materially	from	those
	
in	the	U.S.	and	Europe,	which	may	further	increase	the	legal	complexity	of	self-driving	vehicles	and	limit	or	prevent	certain	features.
Automobile	Manufacturer	and	Dealer	Regulation
In	the	U.S.,	state	laws	regulate	the	manufacture,	distribution,	sale	and	service	of	automobiles,	and	generally	require	motor	vehicle
	
manufacturers	and	dealers	to	be	licensed	in	order	to	sell	vehicles	directly	to	residents.	Certain	states	have	asserted	that	the	laws	in	such	states	do	not
	
permit	automobile	manufacturers	to	be	licensed	as	dealers	or	to	act	in	the	capacity	of	a	dealer,	or	that	they	otherwise	restrict	a	manufacturer’s	ability
	
to	deliver	or	perform	warranty	repairs	on	vehicles.	To	sell	vehicles	to	residents	of	states	where	we	are	not	licensed	as	a	dealer,	we	generally	conduct
	
the	sale	out	of	the	state.	In	certain	such	states,	we	have	opened	“galleries”	that	serve	an	educational	purpose	and	where	sales	may	not	occur.
Some	automobile	dealer	trade	associations	have	both	challenged	the	legality	of	our	operations	in	court	and	used	administrative	and	legislative
	
processes	to	attempt	to	prohibit	or	limit	our	ability	to	operate	existing	stores	or	expand	to	new	locations.	Certain	dealer	associations	have	also	actively
	
lobbied	state	licensing	agencies	and	legislators	to	interpret	existing	laws	or	enact	new	laws	in	ways	not	favorable	to	our	ownership	and	operation	of	our
	
own	retail	and	service	locations.	We	expect	such	challenges	to	continue,	and	we	intend	to	actively	fight	any	such	efforts.
Battery	Safety	and	Testing
Our	battery	packs	are	subject	to	various	U.S.	and	international	regulations	that	govern	transport	of	“dangerous	goods,”	defined	to	include
	
lithium-ion	batteries,	which	may	present	a	risk	in	transportation.	We	conduct	testing	to	demonstrate	our	compliance	with	such	regulations.
We	use	lithium-ion	cells	in	our	high	voltage	battery	packs	in	our	vehicles	and	energy	storage	products.	The	use,	storage	and	disposal	of	our
	
battery	packs	are	regulated	under	existing	laws	and	are	the	subject	of	ongoing	regulatory	changes	that	may	add	additional	requirements	in	the	future.
	
We	have	agreements	with	third	party	battery	recycling	companies	to	recycle	our	battery	packs,	and	we	are	also	piloting	our	own	recycling	technology.
Solar	Energy—General
We	are	subject	to	certain	state	and	federal	regulations	applicable	to	solar	and	battery	storage	providers	and	sellers	of	electricity.	To	operate	our
	
systems,	we	enter	into	standard	interconnection	agreements	with	applicable	utilities.	Sales	of	electricity	and	non-sale	equipment	leases	by	third	parties,
	
such	as	our	leases	and	PPAs,	have	faced	regulatory	challenges	in	some	states	and	jurisdictions.
Solar	Energy—Net	Metering
Most	states	in	the	U.S.	make	net	energy	metering,	or	net	metering,	available	to	solar	customers.	Net	metering	typically	allows	solar	customers	to
	
interconnect	their	solar	energy	systems	to	the	utility	grid	and	offset	their	utility	electricity	purchases	by	receiving	a	bill	credit	for	excess	energy
	
generated	by	their	solar	energy	system	that	is	exported	to	the	grid.	In	certain	jurisdictions,	regulators	or	utilities	have	reduced	or	eliminated	the	benefit
	
available	under	net	metering	or	have	proposed	to	do	so.
Competition
Automotive
The	worldwide	automotive	market	is	highly	competitive	and	we	expect	it	will	become	even	more	competitive	in	the	future	as	we	introduce
	
additional	vehicles	in	a	broader	cross-section	of	the	passenger	and	commercial	vehicle	market	and	expand	our	vehicles’	capabilities.
10	
We	believe	that	our	vehicles	compete	in	the	market	based	on	both	their	traditional	segment	classification	as	well	as	their	propulsion	technology.
	
For	example,	Model	S	and	Model	X	compete	primarily	with	premium	sedans	and	premium	SUVs	and	Model	3	and	Model	Y	compete	with	small	to
	
medium-sized	sedans	and	compact	SUVs,	which	are	extremely	competitive	markets.	Competing	products	typically	include	internal	combustion	vehicles
	
from	more	established	automobile	manufacturers;	however,	many	established	and	new	automobile	manufacturers	have	entered	or	have	announced
	
plans	to	enter	the	market	for	electric	and	other	alternative	fuel	vehicles.	Overall,	we	believe	these	announcements	and	vehicle	introductions,	including
	
the	introduction	of	electric	vehicles	into	rental	car	company	fleets,	promote	the	development	of	the	electric	vehicle	market	by	highlighting	the
	
attractiveness	of	electric	vehicles	relative	to	the	internal	combustion	vehicle.	Many	major	automobile	manufacturers	have	electric	vehicles	available
	
today	in	major	markets	including	the	U.S.,	China	and	Europe,	and	other	current	and	prospective	automobile	manufacturers	are	also	developing	electric
	
vehicles.	In	addition,	several	manufacturers	offer	hybrid	vehicles,	including	plug-in	versions.
	
We	believe	that	there	is	also	increasing	competition	for	our	vehicle	offerings	as	a	platform	for	delivering	self-driving	technologies,	charging
	
solutions	and	other	features	and	services,	and	we	expect	to	compete	in	this	developing	market	through	continued	progress	on	our	Autopilot,	FSD	and
	
neural	network	capabilities,	Supercharger	network	and	our	infotainment	offerings.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
Energy	Storage	Systems
The	market	for	energy	storage	products	is	also	highly	competitive,	and	both	established	and	emerging	companies	have	introduced	products	that
	
are	similar	to	our	product	portfolio	or	that	are	alternatives	to	the	elements	of	our	systems.	We	compete	with	these	companies	based	on	price,	energy
	
density	and	efficiency.	We	believe	that	the	specifications	and	features	of	our	products,	our	strong	brand	and	the	modular,	scalable	nature	of	our	energy
	
storage	products	give	us	a	competitive	advantage	in	our	markets.
Solar	Energy	Systems
The	primary	competitors	to	our	solar	energy	business	are	the	traditional	local	utility	companies	that	supply	energy	to	our	potential	customers.
	
We	compete	with	these	traditional	utility	companies	primarily	based	on	price	and	the	ease	by	which	customers	can	switch	to	electricity	generated	by
	
our	solar	energy	systems.	We	also	compete	with	solar	energy	companies	that	provide	products	and	services	similar	to	ours.	Many	solar	energy
	
companies	only	install	solar	energy	systems,	while	others	only	provide	financing	for	these	installations.	We	believe	we	have	a	significant	expansion
	
opportunity	with	our	offerings	and	that	the	regulatory	environment	is	increasingly	conducive	to	the	adoption	of	renewable	energy	systems.
Intellectual	Property
We	place	a	strong	emphasis	on	our	innovative	approach	and	proprietary	designs	which	bring	intrinsic	value	and	uniqueness	to	our	product
	
portfolio.	As	part	of	our	business,	we	seek	to	protect	the	underlying	intellectual	property	rights	of	these	innovations	and	designs	such	as	with	respect	to
	
patents,	trademarks,	copyrights,	trade	secrets	and	other	measures,	including	through	employee	and	third-party	nondisclosure	agreements	and	other
	
contractual	arrangements.	For	example,	we	place	a	high	priority	on	obtaining	patents	to	provide	the	broadest	and	strongest	possible	protection	to
	
enable	our	freedom	to	operate	our	innovations	and	designs	within	our	products	and	technologies	in	the	electric	vehicle	market	as	well	as	to	protect	and
	
defend	our	product	portfolio.	We	have	also	adopted	a	patent	policy	in	which	we	irrevocably	pledged	that	we	will	not	initiate	a	lawsuit	against	any	party
	
for	infringing	our	patents	through	activity	relating	to	electric	vehicles	or	related	equipment	for	so	long	as	such	party	is	acting	in	good	faith.	We	made
	
this	pledge	in	order	to	encourage	the	advancement	of	a	common,	rapidly-evolving	platform	for	electric	vehicles,	thereby	benefiting	ourselves,	other
	
companies	making	electric	vehicles	and	the	world.
Environmental,	Social	and	Governance	(ESG)	and	Human	Capital	Resources
ESG
The	very	purpose	of	Tesla's	existence	is	to	accelerate	the	world's	transition	to	sustainable	energy.	We	believe	the	world	cannot	reduce	carbon
	
emissions	without	addressing	both	energy	generation	and	consumption,	and	we	are	designing	and	manufacturing	a	complete	energy	and	transportation
	
ecosystem	to	achieve	this	goal.	As	we	expand,	we	are	building	each	new	factory	to	be	more	efficient	and	sustainably	designed	than	the	previous	one,
	
including	with	respect	to	per-unit	waste	reduction	and	resource	consumption,	including	water	and	energy	usage.	We	are	focused	on	further	enhancing
	
sustainability	of	operations	outside	of	our	direct	control,	including	reducing	the	carbon	footprint	of	our	supply	chain.
	
11	
We	are	committed	to	sourcing	only	responsibly	produced	materials,	and	our	suppliers	are	required	to	provide	evidence	of	management	systems
	
that	ensure	social,	environmental	and	sustainability	best	practices	in	their	own	operations,	as	well	as	to	demonstrate	a	commitment	to	responsible
	
sourcing	into	their	supply	chains.	We	have	a	zero-tolerance	policy	when	it	comes	to	child	or	forced	labor	and	human	trafficking	by	our	suppliers	and	we
	
look	to	the	Organization	for	Economic	Co-operation	and	Development	Due	Diligence	Guidelines	to	inform	our	process	and	use	feedback	from	our
	
internal	and	external	stakeholders	to	find	ways	to	continually	improve.	We	are	also	driving	safety	in	our	own	factories	by	focusing	on	worker
	
engagement.	Our	incidents	per	vehicle	continue	to	drop	even	as	our	production	volumes	increase.	We	also	strive	to	be	an	employer	of	choice	by	offering
	
compelling,	impactful	jobs	with	best	in-industry	benefits.
	
We	believe	that	sound	corporate	governance	is	critical	to	helping	us	achieve	our	goals,	including	with	respect	to	ESG.	We	continue	to	evolve	a
	
governance	framework	that	exercises	appropriate	oversight	of	responsibilities	at	all	levels	throughout	the	company	and	manages	its	affairs	consistent
	
with	high	principles	of	business	ethics.	Our	ESG	Sustainability	Council	is	made	up	of	leaders	from	across	our	company,	and	regularly	presents	to	our
	
Board	of	Directors,	which	oversees	our	ESG	impacts,	initiatives	and	priorities.
Human	Capital	Resources
	
Our	greatest	asset	is	our	people	and	we	continue	to	attract	the	best	and	brightest	with	our	competitive	pay	and	benefits	package	which	starts
	
with	ownership.	We	offer	employees	the	opportunity	to	receive	equity	during	their	employment	and	share	in	the	success	of	Tesla.	As	of	December	31,
	
2022,	our	full-time	count	for	our	and	our	subsidiaries’	employees	worldwide	was	127,855,	a	29,000	year	over	year	increase.
We	are	committed	to	providing	a	workplace	where	our	employees	feel	respected	and	appreciated.	Human	Resource	(“HR”)	Partners	for	each
	
functional	area	are	introduced	in	new	hire	orientation	so	employees	know	whom	to	contact	with	questions	or	concerns.	HR	Partners	are	visible
	
throughout	facilities	and	are	actively	involved	in	driving	culture	and	engagement	alongside	business	leaders.
Our	policies	are	designed	to	promote	fairness	and	respect	for	everyone.	We	hire,	evaluate,	and	promote	employees	based	on	their	skills	and
	
performance.	Everyone	is	expected	to	be	trustworthy,	demonstrate	excellence	in	their	performance,	and	collaborate	with	others.	With	this	in	mind,	we
	
will	not	tolerate	certain	behaviors.	These	include	harassment,	retaliation,	violence,	intimidation,	and	discrimination	of	any	kind	on	the	basis	of	race,
	
color,	religion,	national	origin,	gender,	sexual	orientation,	gender	identity,	gender	expression,	age,	disability	or	veteran	status.
To	ensure	this,	anti-harassment	training	is	conducted	on	day	one	of	new	hire	orientation	for	all	employees.	In	addition,	we	run	various	leadership
	
development	programs	throughout	the	year	aimed	at	enhancing	leaders’	skills,	and	in	particular,	helping	them	to	understand	how	to	appropriately
	
respond	to	employee	concerns.
Through	our	
See	Something,	Say	Something
	program,	employees	are	encouraged	to	speak	up	both	in	regard	to	misconduct	and	safety	concerns.
	
They	can	do	so	by	contacting	the	integrity	line,	submitting	concerns	through	our	Take	Charge	process,	or	notifying	their	HR	Partner	or	any	member	of
	
management.	Concerns	are	reviewed	in	accordance	with	established	protocols	by	investigators	with	expertise,	who	also	review	for	trends	and	outcomes
	
for	remediation	and	appropriate	controls.
Responding	to	questions	timely	is	key	so	we	implemented	HR	Answer	Bars	in	the	factories	where	employees	can	easily	access	and	speak	with	an
	
HR	representative	immediately	regarding	career	advice,	benefits	or	any	concerns	the	employee	may	have.	We	have	also	implemented	an	HR	Chatbot	for
	
24x7	answers	to	team	members’	questions.
12	
To	continue	innovating	and	changing	the	world	for	the	better,	we	must	ensure	we	have	a	talented	and	engaged	workforce	with	ample
	
opportunity	to	contribute	to	our	mission	and	grow	professionally.	We	are	focused	on	intentionally	creating	pathways	to	career	opportunities	across
	
Tesla	through	strategic	initiatives	such	as:
•
Internships	and	Apprenticeships	
-	Over	3,000	university	and	community	college	students	from	around	the	world	are	hired	into
	
internship	and	apprenticeship	opportunities	at	Tesla	annually.	We	recruit	from	over	100	collegiate	institutions	and	diverse	student
	
organizations,	attracting	top	talent	passionate	about	accelerating	the	world’s	transition	to	sustainable	energy.
	
•
Tesla	START	
-	Tesla	START	is	an	intensive	training	program	providing	individuals	with	the	skills	necessary	for	a	successful	technician
	
role	at	Tesla.	We	partner	with	13	colleges	across	the	country	to	integrate	Tesla	START	into	automotive,	collision	and	manufacturing
	
curriculums	to	provide	individuals	with	a	smooth	transition	from	college	to	full-time	employment.	In	2022,	we	had	over	200	graduates
	
from	Tesla	START	programs,	with	an	additional	100+	graduating	in	the	coming	weeks	from	our	winter	classes.
•
High	School	Graduate	Pathways	-	
Tesla's	Manufacturing	Development	Program	is	designed	to	provide	graduating	high	school	seniors
	
with	the	financial	resources,	coursework	and	experience	they	need	to	start	a	successful	manufacturing	career	at	Tesla.	We	hired	144
	
graduates	through	this	program	in	2022,	and	
our	goal	in	2023	is	to	grow	this	program	2.5X	to	over	360	students	annually	across	our
	
Fremont	Factory,	Gigafactory	Nevada,	Gigafactory	Texas,	and	Gigafactory	New	York.
At	Tesla,	our	employees	show	up	passionate	about	making	a	difference	in	the	world	and	for	each	other.	With	a	majority-minority	workforce,
	
empowering	our	employee	resource	groups	to	take	charge	in	driving	initiatives	that	attract,	develop	and	retain	our	passionate	workforce	is	vital	to	our
	
continued	success.
Available	Information
We	file	or	furnish	periodic	reports	and	amendments	thereto,	including	our	Annual	Reports	on	Form	10-K,	our	Quarterly	Reports	on	Form	10-Q
	
and	Current	Reports	on	Form	8-K,	proxy	statements	and	other	information	with	the	SEC.	In	addition,	the	SEC	maintains	a	website	(
www.sec.gov
)	that
	
contains	reports,	proxy	and	information	statements,	and	other	information	regarding	issuers	that	file	electronically.	Our	website	is	located	at
	
www.tesla.com
,	and	our	reports,	amendments	thereto,	proxy	statements	and	other	information	are	also	made	available,	free	of	charge,	on	our	investor
	
relations	website	at	
ir.tesla.com
	as	soon	as	reasonably	practicable	after	we	electronically	file	or	furnish	such	information	with	the	SEC.	The	information
	
posted	on	our	website	is	not	incorporated	by	reference	into	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
	
13	
ITEM	1A.	
RISK	FACTORS
You	should	carefully	consider	the	risks	described	below	together	with	the	other	information	set	forth	in	this	report,	which	could	materially	affect
	
our	business,	financial	condition	and	future	results.	The	risks	described	below	are	not	the	only	risks	facing	our	company.	Risks	and	uncertainties	not
	
currently	known	to	us	or	that	we	currently	deem	to	be	immaterial	also	may	materially	adversely	affect	our	business,	financial	condition	and	operating
	
results.
	
Risks	Related	to	Our	Ability	to	Grow	Our	Business
We	may	be	impacted	by	macroeconomic	conditions	resulting	from	the	global	COVID-19	pandemic.
Since	the	first	quarter	of	2020,	there	has	been	a	worldwide	impact	from	the	COVID-19	pandemic.	Government	regulations	and	shifting	social
	
behaviors	have,	at	times,	limited	or	closed	non-essential	transportation,	government	functions,	business	activities	and	person-to-person	interactions.
	
Global	trade	conditions	and	consumer	trends	that	originated	during	the	pandemic	continue	to	persist	and	may	also	have	long-lasting	adverse	impact	on
	
us	and	our	industries	independently	of	the	progress	of	the	pandemic.
	
For	example,	pandemic-related	issues	have	exacerbated	port	congestion	and	intermittent	supplier	shutdowns	and	delays,	resulting	in	additional
	
expenses	to	expedite	delivery	of	critical	parts.	Similarly,	increased	demand	for	personal	electronics	has	created	a	shortfall	of	semiconductors,	which	has
	
caused	challenges	in	our	supply	chain	and	production.	In	addition,	labor	shortages	resulting	from	the	pandemic,	including	worker	absenteeism,	has	led
	
to	increased	difficulty	in	hiring	and	retaining	manufacturing	and	service	workers,	as	well	as	increased	labor	costs	and	supplier	delays.	Sustaining	our
	
production	trajectory	will	require	the	ongoing	readiness	and	solvency	of	our	suppliers	and	vendors,	a	stable	and	motivated	production	workforce	and
	
government	cooperation,	including	for	travel	and	visa	allowances.	The	contingencies	inherent	in	the	ramp	at	new	facilities	such	as	Gigafactory	Berlin-
Brandenburg	and	Gigafactory	Texas	may	be	exacerbated	by	these	challenges.	Additionally,	infection	rates	and	regulations	continue	to	fluctuate	in
	
various	regions,	which	may	impact	operations.	For	example,	in	2022,	spikes	in	COVID-19	cases	in	Shanghai	resulted	in	the	temporary	shutdown	of
	
Gigafactory	Shanghai,	as	well	as	parts	of	our	supply	chain,	and	impacted	our	ability	to	deliver	cars.
	
We	cannot	predict	the	duration	or	direction	of	current	global	trends	or	their	sustained	impact.	Ultimately,	we	continue	to	monitor
	
macroeconomic	conditions	to	remain	flexible	and	to	optimize	and	evolve	our	business	as	appropriate,	and	attempt	to	accurately	project	demand	and
	
infrastructure	requirements	globally	and	deploy	our	production,	workforce	and	other	resources	accordingly.	Lastly,	rising	interest	rates	may	lead	to
	
consumers	to	increasingly	pull	back	spending,	including	on	our	products,	which	may	harm	our	demand,	business	and	operating	results.	If	we	experience
	
unfavorable	global	market	conditions,	or	if	we	cannot	or	do	not	maintain	operations	at	a	scope	that	is	commensurate	with	such	conditions	or	are	later
	
required	to	or	choose	to	suspend	such	operations	again,	our	business,	prospects,	financial	condition	and	operating	results	may	be	harmed.
We	may	experience	delays	in	launching	and	ramping	the	production	of	our	products	and	features,	or	we	may	be	unable	to	control
	
our	manufacturing	costs.
We	have	previously	experienced	and	may	in	the	future	experience	launch	and	production	ramp	delays	for	new	products	and	features.	For
	
example,	we	encountered	unanticipated	supplier	issues	that	led	to	delays	during	the	initial	ramp	of	our	first	Model	X	and	experienced	challenges	with	a
	
supplier	and	with	ramping	full	automation	for	certain	of	our	initial	Model	3	manufacturing	processes.	In
	
14	
addition,	we	may	introduce	in	the	future	new	or	unique	manufacturing	processes	and	design	features	for	our	products.	There	is	no	guarantee	that	we
	
will	be	able	to	successfully	and	timely	introduce	and	scale	such	processes	or	features.
	
In	particular,	our	future	business	depends	in	large	part	on	increasing	the	production	of	mass-market	vehicles	including	Model	3	and	Model	Y.	In
	
order	to	be	successful,	we	will	need	to	implement,	maintain	and	ramp	efficient	and	cost-effective	manufacturing	capabilities,	processes	and	supply
	
chains	and	achieve	the	design	tolerances,	high	quality	and	output	rates	we	have	planned	at	our	manufacturing	facilities	in	California,	Nevada,	Texas,
	
China,	Germany	and	any	future	sites.	We	will	also	need	to	hire,	train	and	compensate	skilled	employees	to	operate	these	facilities.	Bottlenecks	and
	
other	unexpected	challenges	such	as	those	we	experienced	in	the	past	may	arise	during	our	production	ramps,	and	we	must	address	them	promptly
	
while	continuing	to	improve	manufacturing	processes	and	reducing	costs.	If	we	are	not	successful	in	achieving	these	goals,	we	could	face	delays	in
	
establishing	and/or	sustaining	our	Model	3	and	Model	Y	ramps	or	be	unable	to	meet	our	related	cost	and	profitability	targets.
	
We	have	experienced,	and	may	also	experience	similar	future	delays	in	launching	and/or	ramping	production	of	our	energy	storage	products	and
	
Solar	Roof;	new	product	versions	or	variants;	new	vehicles;	and	future	features	and	services	based	on	artificial	intelligence.	Likewise,	we	may	encounter
	
delays	with	the	design,	construction	and	regulatory	or	other	approvals	necessary	to	build	and	bring	online	future	manufacturing	facilities	and	products.
	
Any	delay	or	other	complication	in	ramping	the	production	of	our	current	products	or	the	development,	manufacture,	launch	and	production
	
ramp	of	our	future	products,	features	and	services,	or	in	doing	so	cost-effectively	and	with	high	quality,	may	harm	our	brand,	business,	prospects,
	
financial	condition	and	operating	results.
	
Our	suppliers	may	fail	to	deliver	components	according	to	schedules,	prices,	quality	and	volumes	that	are	acceptable	to	us,	or	we
	
may	be	unable	to	manage	these	components	effectively.
Our	products	contain	thousands	of	parts	purchased	globally	from	hundreds	of	suppliers,	including	single-source	direct	suppliers,	which	exposes
	
us	to	multiple	potential	sources	of	component	shortages.	Unexpected	changes	in	business	conditions,	materials	pricing,	including	inflation	of	raw
	
material	costs,	labor	issues,	wars,	trade	policies,	natural	disasters,	health	epidemics	such	as	the	global	COVID-19	pandemic,	trade	and	shipping
	
disruptions,	port	congestions	and	other	factors	beyond	our	or	our	suppliers’	control	could	also	affect	these	suppliers’	ability	to	deliver	components	to	us
	
or	to	remain	solvent	and	operational.	For	example,	a	global	shortage	of	semiconductors	has	been	reported	since	early	2021	and	has	caused	challenges
	
in	the	manufacturing	industry	and	impacted	our	supply	chain	and	production.	In	addition,	a	spike	in	COVID-19	cases	in	Shanghai	in	early	2022	led	to
	
temporary	manufacturing	shutdowns	of	certain	of	our	suppliers.	We	have	used	alternative	parts	and	programmed	software	to	mitigate	certain
	
challenges	caused	by	these	shortages,	but	there	is	no	guarantee	we	may	be	able	to	continually	do	so	as	we	scale	production	to	meet	our	growth	targets.
	
Additionally,	if	our	suppliers	do	not	accurately	forecast	and	effectively	allocate	production	or	if	they	are	not	willing	to	allocate	sufficient	production	to
	
us,	it	may	reduce	our	access	to	components	and	require	us	to	search	for	new	suppliers.	The	unavailability	of	any	component	or	supplier	could	result	in
	
production	delays,	idle	manufacturing	facilities,	product	design	changes	and	loss	of	access	to	important	technology	and	tools	for	producing	and
	
supporting	our	products,	as	well	as	impact	our	capacity	expansion	and	our	ability	to	fulfill	our	obligations	under	customer	contracts.	Moreover,
	
significant	increases	in	our	production,	such	as	for	Model	3	and	Model	Y,	or	product	design	changes	by	us	have	required	and	may	in	the	future	require
	
us	to	procure	additional	components	in	a	short	amount	of	time.	We	have	faced	in	the	past,	and	may	face	suppliers	who	are	unwilling	or	unable	to
	
sustainably	meet	our	timelines	or	our	cost,	quality	and	volume	needs,	or	to	do	so	may	cost	us	more,	which	may	require	us	to	replace	them	with	other
	
sources.	Finally,	we	have	limited	vehicle	manufacturing	experience	outside	of	the	Fremont	Factory	and	Gigafactory	Shanghai	and	we	may	experience
	
issues	increasing	the	level	of	localized	procurement	at	Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg	and	Gigafactory	Texas.	While	we	believe	that	we	will	be	able	to
	
secure	additional	or	alternate	sources	or	develop	our	own	replacements	for	most	of	our	components,	there	is	no	assurance	that	we	will	be	able	to	do	so
	
quickly	or	at	all.	Additionally,	we	may	be	unsuccessful	in	our	continuous	efforts	to	negotiate	with	existing	suppliers	to	obtain	cost	reductions	and	avoid
	
unfavorable	changes	to	terms,	source	less	expensive	suppliers	for	certain	parts	and	redesign	certain	parts	to	make	them	less	expensive	to	produce,
	
especially	in	light	of	the	increases	in	materials	pricing.	Any	of	these	occurrences	may	harm	our	business,	prospects,	financial	condition	and	operating
	
results.
As	the	scale	of	our	vehicle	production	increases,	we	will	also	need	to	accurately	forecast,	purchase,	warehouse	and	transport	components	at	high
	
volumes	to	our	manufacturing	facilities	and	servicing	locations	internationally.	If	we	are	unable	to	accurately	match	the	timing	and	quantities	of
	
component	purchases	to	our	actual	needs	or	successfully	implement	automation,	inventory
	
15	
management	and	other	systems	to	accommodate	the	increased	complexity	in	our	supply	chain	and	parts	management,	we	may	incur	unexpected
	
production	disruption,	storage,	transportation	and	write-off	costs,	which	may	harm	our	business	and	operating	results.
We	may	be	unable	to	meet	our	projected	construction	timelines,	costs	and	production	ramps	at	new	factories,	or	we	may	experience
	
difficulties	in	generating	and	maintaining	demand	for	products	manufactured	there.
	
Our	ability	to	increase	production	of	our	vehicles	on	a	sustained	basis,	make	them	affordable	globally	by	accessing	local	supply	chains	and
	
workforces	and	streamline	delivery	logistics	is	dependent	on	the	construction	and	ramp	of	our	current	and	future	factories.	The	construction	of	and
	
commencement	and	ramp	of	production	at	these	factories	are	subject	to	a	number	of	uncertainties	inherent	in	all	new	manufacturing	operations,
	
including	ongoing	compliance	with	regulatory	requirements,	procurement	and	maintenance	of	construction,	environmental	and	operational	licenses	and
	
approvals	for	additional	expansion,	supply	chain	constraints,	hiring,	training	and	retention	of	qualified	employees	and	the	pace	of	bringing	production
	
equipment	and	processes	online	with	the	capability	to	manufacture	high-quality	units	at	scale.	Moreover,	we	will	have	to	establish	and	ramp	production
	
of	our	proprietary	battery	cells	and	packs	at	our	new	factories,	and	we	additionally	intend	to	incorporate	sequential	design	and	manufacturing	changes
	
into	vehicles	manufactured	at	each	new	factory.	If	we	experience	any	issues	or	delays	in	meeting	our	projected	timelines,	costs,	capital	efficiency	and
	
production	capacity	for	our	new	factories,	expanding	and	managing	teams	to	implement	iterative	design	and	production	changes	there,	maintaining	and
	
complying	with	the	terms	of	any	debt	financing	that	we	obtain	to	fund	them	or	generating	and	maintaining	demand	for	the	vehicles	we	manufacture
	
there,	our	business,	prospects,	operating	results	and	financial	condition	may	be	harmed.
	
We	may	be	unable	to	grow	our	global	product	sales,	delivery	and	installation	capabilities	and	our	servicing	and	vehicle	charging
	
networks,	or	we	may	be	unable	to	accurately	project	and	effectively	manage	our	growth.
Our	success	will	depend	on	our	ability	to	continue	to	expand	our	sales	capabilities.	We	are	targeting	with	Model	3	and	Model	Y	a	global	mass
	
demographic	with	a	broad	range	of	potential	customers,	in	which	we	have	relatively	limited	experience	projecting	demand	and	pricing	our	products.	We
	
currently	produce	numerous	international	variants	at	a	limited	number	of	factories,	and	if	our	specific	demand	expectations	for	these	variants	prove
	
inaccurate,	we	may	not	be	able	to	timely	generate	deliveries	matched	to	the	vehicles	that	we	produce	in	the	same	timeframe	or	that	are	commensurate
	
with	the	size	of	our	operations	in	a	given	region.	Likewise,	as	we	develop	and	grow	our	energy	products	and	services	worldwide,	our	success	will
	
depend	on	our	ability	to	correctly	forecast	demand	in	various	markets.
	
Because	we	do	not	have	independent	dealer	networks,	we	are	responsible	for	delivering	all	of	our	vehicles	to	our	customers.	As	our	production
	
volumes	continue	to	grow,	we	have	faced	in	the	past,	and	may	face	challenges	with	deliveries	at	increasing	volumes,	particularly	in	international
	
markets	requiring	significant	transit	times.	We	have	also	deployed	a	number	of	delivery	models,	such	as	deliveries	to	customers’	homes	and	workplaces
	
and	touchless	deliveries,	but	there	is	no	guarantee	that	such	models	will	be	scalable	or	be	accepted	globally.	Likewise,	as	we	ramp	our	energy	products,
	
we	are	working	to	substantially	increase	our	production	and	installation	capabilities.	If	we	experience	production	delays	or	inaccurately	forecast
	
demand,	our	business,	financial	condition	and	operating	results	may	be	harmed.
	
Moreover,	because	of	our	unique	expertise	with	our	vehicles,	we	recommend	that	our	vehicles	be	serviced	by	us	or	by	certain	authorized
	
professionals.	If	we	experience	delays	in	adding	servicing	capacity	or	servicing	our	vehicles	efficiently,	or	experience	unforeseen	issues	with	the
	
reliability	of	our	vehicles,	particularly	higher-volume	additions	to	our	fleet	such	as	Model	3	and	Model	Y,	it	could	overburden	our	servicing	capabilities
	
and	parts	inventory.	Similarly,	the	increasing	number	of	Tesla	vehicles	also	requires	us	to	continue	to	rapidly	increase	the	number	of	our	Supercharger
	
stations	and	connectors	throughout	the	world.
	
There	is	no	assurance	that	we	will	be	able	to	ramp	our	business	to	meet	our	sales,	delivery,	installation,	servicing	and	vehicle	charging	targets
	
globally,	that	our	projections	on	which	such	targets	are	based	will	prove	accurate	or	that	the	pace	of	growth	or	coverage	of	our	customer	infrastructure
	
network	will	meet	customer	expectations.	These	plans	require	significant	cash	investments	and	management	resources	and	there	is	no	guarantee	that
	
they	will	generate	additional	sales	or	installations	of	our	products,	or	that	we	will	be	able	to	avoid	cost	overruns	or	be	able	to	hire	additional	personnel
	
to	support	them.	As	we	expand,	we	will	also	need	to	ensure	our	compliance	with	regulatory	requirements	in	various	jurisdictions	applicable	to	the	sale,
	
installation	and	servicing	of	our	products,	the	sale	or	dispatch	of	electricity	related	to	our	energy	products	and	the	operation	of	Superchargers.	If	we	fail
	
to	manage	our	growth	effectively,	it	may	harm	our	brand,	business,	prospects,	financial	condition	and	operating	results.
We	will	need	to	maintain	and	significantly	grow	our	access	to	battery	cells,	including	through	the	development	and	manufacture	of
	
our	own	cells,	and	control	our	related	costs.
We	are	dependent	on	the	continued	supply	of	lithium-ion	battery	cells	for	our	vehicles	and	energy	storage	products,	and	we	will	require
	
substantially	more	cells	to	grow	our	business	according	to	our	plans.	Currently,	we	rely	on	suppliers	such	as	Panasonic	and	Contemporary	Amperex
	
Technology	Co.	Limited	(CATL)	for	these	cells.	We	have	to	date	fully	qualified	only	a	very	limited	number	of	such	suppliers	and	have	limited	flexibility	in
	
changing	suppliers.	Any	disruption	in	the	supply	of	battery	cells	from	our	suppliers	could	limit	production	of	our	vehicles	and	energy	storage	products.
	
In	the	long	term,	we	intend	to	supplement	cells	from	our	suppliers	with	cells	manufactured	by	us,	which	we	believe	will	be	more	efficient,
	
manufacturable	at	greater	volumes	and	more	cost-effective
	
16	
than	currently	available	cells.	However,	our	efforts	to	develop	and	manufacture	such	battery	cells	have	required,	and	may	continue	to	require,
	
significant	investments,	and	there	can	be	no	assurance	that	we	will	be	able	to	achieve	these	targets	in	the	timeframes	that	we	have	planned	or	at	all.	If
	
we	are	unable	to	do	so,	we	may	have	to	curtail	our	planned	vehicle	and	energy	storage	product	production	or	procure	additional	cells	from	suppliers	at
	
potentially	greater	costs,	either	of	which	may	harm	our	business	and	operating	results.
	
In	addition,	the	cost	and	mass	production	of	battery	cells,	whether	manufactured	by	our	suppliers	or	by	us,	depends	in	part	upon	the	prices	and
	
availability	of	raw	materials	such	as	lithium,	nickel,	cobalt	and/or	other	metals.	The	prices	for	these	materials	fluctuate	and	their	available	supply	may
	
be	unstable,	depending	on	market	conditions	and	global	demand	for	these	materials.	For	example,	as	a	result	of	increased	global	production	of	electric
	
vehicles	and	energy	storage	products,	suppliers	of	these	raw	materials	may	be	unable	to	meet	our	volume	needs.	Additionally,	our	suppliers	may	not	be
	
willing	or	able	to	reliably	meet	our	timelines	or	our	cost	and	quality	needs,	which	may	require	us	to	replace	them	with	other	sources.	Any	reduced
	
availability	of	these	materials	may	impact	our	access	to	cells	and	our	growth,	and	any	increases	in	their	prices	may	reduce	our	profitability	if	we	cannot
	
recoup	such	costs	through	increased	prices.	Moreover,	our	inability	to	meet	demand	and	any	product	price	increases	may	harm	our	brand,	growth,
	
prospects	and	operating	results.
Our	future	growth	and	success	are	dependent	upon	consumers’	demand	for	electric	vehicles	and	specifically	our	vehicles	in	an
	
automotive	industry	that	is	generally	competitive,	cyclical	and	volatile.
	
Though	we	continue	to	see	increased	interest	and	adoption	of	electric	vehicles,	if	the	market	for	electric	vehicles	in	general	and	Tesla	vehicles	in
	
particular	does	not	develop	as	we	expect,	develops	more	slowly	than	we	expect,	or	if	demand	for	our	vehicles	decreases	in	our	markets	or	our	vehicles
	
compete	with	each	other,	our	business,	prospects,	financial	condition	and	operating	results	may	be	harmed.
	
In	addition,	electric	vehicles	still	constitute	a	small	percentage	of	overall	vehicle	sales.	As	a	result,	the	market	for	our	vehicles	could	be
	
negatively	affected	by	numerous	factors,	such	as:
	
•
perceptions	about	electric	vehicle	features,	quality,	safety,	performance	and	cost;
•
perceptions	about	the	limited	range	over	which	electric	vehicles	may	be	driven	on	a	single	battery	charge,	and	access	to	charging
	
facilities;
	
•
competition,	including	from	other	types	of	alternative	fuel	vehicles,	plug-in	hybrid	electric	vehicles	and	high	fuel-economy	internal
	
combustion	engine	vehicles;
	
•
volatility	in	the	cost	of	oil,	gasoline	and	energy,	such	as	wide	fluctuations	in	crude	oil	prices	during	2020;
	
•
government	regulations	and	economic	incentives	and	conditions;	and
•
concerns	about	our	future	viability.
Finally,	the	target	demographics	for	our	vehicles,	particularly	Model	3	and	Model	Y,	are	highly	competitive.	Sales	of	vehicles	in	the	automotive
	
industry	tend	to	be	cyclical	in	many	markets,	which	may	expose	us	to	further	volatility.
We	face	strong	competition	for	our	products	and	services	from	a	growing	list	of	established	and	new	competitors.
	
The	worldwide	automotive	market	is	highly	competitive	today	and	we	expect	it	will	become	even	more	so	in	the	future.	For	example,	Model	3	and
	
Model	Y	face	competition	from	existing	and	future	automobile	manufacturers	in	the	extremely	competitive	entry-level	premium	sedan	and	compact	SUV
	
markets.	A	significant	and	growing	number	of	established	and	new	automobile	manufacturers,	as	well	as	other	companies,	have	entered,	or	are
	
reported	to	have	plans	to	enter,	the	market	for	electric	and	other	alternative	fuel	vehicles,	including	hybrid,	plug-in	hybrid	and	fully	electric	vehicles,	as
	
well	as	the	market	for	self-driving	technology	and	other	vehicle	applications	and	software	platforms.	In	some	cases,	our	competitors	offer	or	will	offer
	
electric	vehicles	in	important	markets	such	as	China	and	Europe,	and/or	have	announced	an	intention	to	produce	electric	vehicles	exclusively	at	some
	
point	in	the	future.	Many	of	our	competitors	have	significantly	more	or	better-established	resources	than	we	do	to	devote	to	the	design,	development,
	
manufacturing,	distribution,	promotion,	sale	and	support	of	their	products.	Increased	competition	could	result	in	our	lower	vehicle	unit	sales,	price
	
reductions,	revenue	shortfalls,	loss	of	customers	and	loss	of	market	share,	which	may	harm	our	business,	financial	condition	and	operating	results.
We	also	face	competition	in	our	energy	generation	and	storage	business	from	other	manufacturers,	developers,	installers	and	service	providers
	
of	competing	energy	technologies,	as	well	as	from	large	utilities.	Decreases	in	the	retail	or	wholesale	prices	of	electricity	from	utilities	or	other
	
renewable	energy	sources	could	make	our	products	less	attractive	to	customers	and	lead	to	an	increased	rate	of	customer	defaults.
	
17	
Risks	Related	to	Our	Operations
We	may	experience	issues	with	lithium-ion	cells	or	other	components	manufactured	at	our	Gigafactories,	which	may	harm	the
	
production	and	profitability	of	our	vehicle	and	energy	storage	products.
Our	plan	to	grow	the	volume	and	profitability	of	our	vehicles	and	energy	storage	products	depends	on	significant	lithium-ion	battery	cell
	
production,	including	by	our	partner	Panasonic	at	Gigafactory	Nevada.	We	also	produce	several	vehicle	components	at	our	Gigafactories,	such	as
	
battery	modules	and	packs	and	drive	units,	and	manufacture	energy	storage	products.	In	the	past,	some	of	the	manufacturing	lines	for	certain	product
	
components	took	longer	than	anticipated	to	ramp	to	their	full	capacity,	and	additional	bottlenecks	may	arise	in	the	future	as	we	continue	to	increase	the
	
production	rate	and	introduce	new	lines.	In	addition,	as	the	IRA	provides	new	incentives	for	domestic	energy	production	and	manufacturing,	we	may
	
face	increasing	competition	from	other	automobile	manufacturers	as	well	as	suppliers	for	the	resources	and	capacity	to	build	additional	factories	and
	
expand	our	operations	domestically.	If	we	are	unable	to	or	otherwise	do	not	maintain	and	grow	our	respective	operations,	or	if	we	are	unable	to	do	so
	
cost-effectively	or	hire	and	retain	highly-skilled	personnel	there,	our	ability	to	manufacture	our	products	profitably	would	be	limited,	which	may	harm
	
our	business	and	operating	results.
	
Finally,	the	high	volumes	of	lithium-ion	cells	and	battery	modules	and	packs	manufactured	by	us	and	by	our	suppliers	are	stored	and	recycled	at
	
our	various	facilities.	Any	mishandling	of	these	products	may	cause	disruption	to	the	operation	of	such	facilities.	While	we	have	implemented	safety
	
procedures	related	to	the	handling	of	the	cells,	there	can	be	no	assurance	that	a	safety	issue	or	fire	related	to	the	cells	would	not	disrupt	our	operations.
	
Any	such	disruptions	or	issues	may	harm	our	brand	and	business.
We	face	risks	associated	with	maintaining	and	expanding	our	international	operations,	including	unfavorable	and	uncertain
	
regulatory,	political,	economic,	tax	and	labor	conditions.
	
We	are	subject	to	legal	and	regulatory	requirements,	political	uncertainty	and	social,	environmental	and	economic	conditions	in	numerous
	
jurisdictions,	including	markets	in	which	we	generate	significant	sales,	over	which	we	have	little	control	and	which	are	inherently	unpredictable.	Our
	
operations	in	such	jurisdictions,	particularly	as	a	company	based	in	the	U.S.,	create	risks	relating	to	conforming	our	products	to	regulatory	and	safety
	
requirements	and	charging	and	other	electric	infrastructures;	organizing	local	operating	entities;	establishing,	staffing	and	managing	foreign	business
	
locations;	attracting	local	customers;	navigating	foreign	government	taxes,	regulations	and	permit	requirements;	enforceability	of	our	contractual
	
rights;	trade	restrictions,	customs	regulations,	tariffs	and	price	or	exchange	controls;	and	preferences	in	foreign	nations	for	domestically	manufactured
	
products.	Such	conditions	may	increase	our	costs,	impact	our	ability	to	sell	our	products	and	require	significant	management	attention,	and	may	harm
	
our	business	if	we	are	unable	to	manage	them	effectively.
Our	business	may	suffer	if	our	products	or	features	contain	defects,	fail	to	perform	as	expected	or	take	longer	than	expected	to
	
become	fully	functional.
	
If	our	products	contain	design	or	manufacturing	defects	that	cause	them	not	to	perform	as	expected	or	that	require	repair,	or	certain	features	of
	
our	vehicles	such	as	new	Autopilot	or	FSD	features	take	longer	than	expected	to	become	enabled,	are	legally	restricted	or	become	subject	to	onerous
	
regulation,	our	ability	to	develop,	market	and	sell	our	products	and	services	may	be	harmed,	and	we	may	experience	delivery	delays,	product	recalls,
	
product	liability,	breach	of	warranty	and	consumer	protection	claims	and	significant	warranty	and	other	expenses.	There	is	no	guarantee	that	any
	
incremental	changes	in	the	specific	equipment	we	deploy	in	our	vehicles	over	time	will	not	result	in	initial	functional	disparities	from	prior	iterations	or
	
will	perform	as	expected	in	the	timeframe	we	anticipate,	or	at	all.
Our	products	are	also	highly	dependent	on	software,	which	is	inherently	complex	and	may	contain	latent	defects	or	errors	or	be	subject	to
	
external	attacks.	Issues	experienced	by	our	customers	have	included	those	related	to	taillights,	seat	belt	chimes	and	display	screens	in	certain	Tesla
	
models.	Although	we	attempt	to	remedy	any	issues	we	observe	in	our	products	as	effectively	and	rapidly	as	possible,	such	efforts	may	not	be	timely,	may
	
hamper	production	or	may	not	completely	satisfy	our	customers.	While	we	have	performed,	and	continue	to	perform,	extensive	internal	testing	on	our
	
products	and	features,	we	currently	have	a	limited	frame	of	reference	by	which	to	evaluate	their	long-term	quality,	reliability,	durability	and
	
performance	characteristics.	There	can	be	no	assurance	that	we	will	be	able	to	detect	and	fix	any	defects	in	our	products	prior	to	their	sale	to	or
	
installation	for	customers.
We	may	be	required	to	defend	or	insure	against	product	liability	claims.
The	automobile	industry	generally	experiences	significant	product	liability	claims,	and	as	such	we	face	the	risk	of	such	claims	in	the	event	our
	
vehicles	do	not	perform	or	are	claimed	to	not	have	performed	as	expected.	As	is	true	for	other	automakers,	our	vehicles	have	been	involved	and	we
	
expect	in	the	future	will	be	involved	in	accidents	resulting	in	death	or	personal	injury,	and	such	accidents	where	Autopilot,	Enhanced	Autopilot	or	FSD
	
Capability	features	are	engaged	are	the	subject	of	significant	public	attention,	especially	in	light	of	NHTSA’s	Standing	General	Order	requiring	reports
	
regarding	crashes	involving	vehicles	with	advanced	driver	assistance	systems.	We	have	experienced,	and	we	expect	to	continue	to	face,	claims	and
	
regulatory	scrutiny	arising	from	or	related	to	misuse	or	claimed	failures	or	alleged	misrepresentations	of	such	new	technologies	that	we	are	pioneering.
	
In	addition,	the	battery	packs	that	we	produce	make	use	of	lithium-ion	cells.	On	rare	occasions,	lithium-ion	cells	can	rapidly	release	the	energy	they
	
contain	by	venting
	
18	
smoke	and	flames	in	a	manner	that	can	ignite	nearby	materials	as	well	as	other	lithium-ion	cells.	While	we	have	designed	our	battery	packs	to	passively
	
contain	any	single	cell’s	release	of	energy	without	spreading	to	neighboring	cells,	there	can	be	no	assurance	that	a	field	or	testing	failure	of	our	vehicles
	
or	other	battery	packs	that	we	produce	will	not	occur,	in	particular	due	to	a	high-speed	crash.	Likewise,	as	our	solar	energy	systems	and	energy	storage
	
products	generate	and	store	electricity,	they	have	the	potential	to	fail	or	cause	injury	to	people	or	property.	Any	product	liability	claim	may	subject	us	to
	
lawsuits	and	substantial	monetary	damages,	product	recalls	or	redesign	efforts,	and	even	a	meritless	claim	may	require	us	to	defend	it,	all	of	which	may
	
generate	negative	publicity	and	be	expensive	and	time-consuming.	In	most	jurisdictions,	we	generally	self-insure	against	the	risk	of	product	liability
	
claims	for	vehicle	exposure,	meaning	that	any	product	liability	claims	will	likely	have	to	be	paid	from	company	funds	and	not	by	insurance.
We	will	need	to	maintain	public	credibility	and	confidence	in	our	long-term	business	prospects	in	order	to	succeed.
In	order	to	maintain	and	grow	our	business,	we	must	maintain	credibility	and	confidence	among	customers,	suppliers,	analysts,	investors,	ratings
	
agencies	and	other	parties	in	our	long-term	financial	viability	and	business	prospects.	Maintaining	such	confidence	may	be	challenging	due	to	our
	
limited	operating	history	relative	to	established	competitors;	customer	unfamiliarity	with	our	products;	any	delays	we	may	experience	in	scaling
	
manufacturing,	delivery	and	service	operations	to	meet	demand;	competition	and	uncertainty	regarding	the	future	of	electric	vehicles	or	our	other
	
products	and	services;	our	quarterly	production	and	sales	performance	compared	with	market	expectations;	and	other	factors	including	those	over
	
which	we	have	no	control.	In	particular,	Tesla’s	products,	business,	results	of	operations,	and	statements	and	actions	of	Tesla	and	its	management	are
	
well-publicized	by	a	range	of	third	parties.	Such	attention	can	include	criticism,	which	may	be	exaggerated	or	unfounded,	such	as	speculation	regarding
	
the	sufficiency	or	stability	of	our	management	team.	Any	such	negative	perceptions,	whether	caused	by	us	or	not,	may	harm	our	business	and	make	it
	
more	difficult	to	raise	additional	funds	if	needed.
We	may	be	unable	to	effectively	grow,	or	manage	the	compliance,	residual	value,	financing	and	credit	risks	related	to,	our	various
	
financing	programs.
We	offer	financing	arrangements	for	our	vehicles	in	North	America,	Europe	and	Asia	primarily	ourselves	and	through	various	financial
	
institutions.	We	also	currently	offer	vehicle	financing	arrangements	directly	through	our	local	subsidiaries	in	certain	markets.	Depending	on	the
	
country,	such	arrangements	are	available	for	specified	models	and	may	include	operating	leases	directly	with	us	under	which	we	typically	receive	only	a
	
very	small	portion	of	the	total	vehicle	purchase	price	at	the	time	of	lease,	followed	by	a	stream	of	payments	over	the	term	of	the	lease.	We	have	also
	
offered	various	arrangements	for	customers	of	our	solar	energy	systems	whereby	they	pay	us	a	fixed	payment	to	lease	or	finance	the	purchase	of	such
	
systems	or	purchase	electricity	generated	by	them.	If	we	do	not	successfully	monitor	and	comply	with	applicable	national,	state	and/or	local	financial
	
regulations	and	consumer	protection	laws	governing	these	transactions,	we	may	become	subject	to	enforcement	actions	or	penalties.
The	profitability	of	any	directly-leased	vehicles	returned	to	us	at	the	end	of	their	leases	depends	on	our	ability	to	accurately	project	our	vehicles’
	
residual	values	at	the	outset	of	the	leases,	and	such	values	may	fluctuate	prior	to	the	end	of	their	terms	depending	on	various	factors	such	as	supply	and
	
demand	of	our	used	vehicles,	economic	cycles	and	the	pricing	of	new	vehicles.	We	have	made	in	the	past	and	may	make	in	the	future	certain
	
adjustments	to	our	prices	from	time	to	time	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business,	which	may	impact	the	residual	values	of	our	vehicles	and	reduce	the
	
profitability	of	our	vehicle	leasing	program.	The	funding	and	growth	of	this	program	also	rely	on	our	ability	to	secure	adequate	financing	and/or
	
business	partners.	If	we	are	unable	to	adequately	fund	our	leasing	program	through	internal	funds,	partners	or	other	financing	sources,	and	compelling
	
alternative	financing	programs	are	not	available	for	our	customers	who	may	expect	or	need	such	options,	we	may	be	unable	to	grow	our	vehicle
	
deliveries.	Furthermore,	if	our	vehicle	leasing	business	grows	substantially,	our	business	may	suffer	if	we	cannot	effectively	manage	the	resulting
	
greater	levels	of	residual	risk.
Similarly,	we	have	provided	resale	value	guarantees	to	vehicle	customers	and	partners	for	certain	financing	programs,	under	which	such
	
counterparties	may	sell	their	vehicles	back	to	us	at	certain	points	in	time	at	pre-determined	amounts.	However,	actual	resale	values	are	subject	to
	
fluctuations	over	the	term	of	the	financing	arrangements,	such	as	from	the	vehicle	pricing	changes	discussed	above.	If	the	actual	resale	values	of	any
	
vehicles	resold	or	returned	to	us	pursuant	to	these	programs	are	materially	lower	than	the	pre-determined	amounts	we	have	offered,	our	financial
	
condition	and	operating	results	may	be	harmed.
Finally,	our	vehicle	and	solar	energy	system	financing	programs	and	our	energy	storage	sales	programs	also	expose	us	to	customer	credit	risk.	In
	
the	event	of	a	widespread	economic	downturn	or	other	catastrophic	event,	our	customers	may	be	unable	or	unwilling	to	satisfy	their	payment
	
obligations	to	us	on	a	timely	basis	or	at	all.	If	a	significant	number	of	our	customers	default,	we	may	incur	substantial	credit	losses	and/or	impairment
	
charges	with	respect	to	the	underlying	assets.
19	
We	must	manage	ongoing	obligations	under	our	agreement	with	the	Research	Foundation	for	the	State	University	of	New	York
	
relating	to	our	Gigafactory	New	York.
	
We	are	party	to	an	operating	lease	and	a	research	and	development	agreement	through	the	State	University	of	New	York	(the	“SUNY
	
Foundation”).	These	agreements	provide	for	the	construction	and	use	of	our	Gigafactory	New	York,	which	we	have	primarily	used	for	the	development
	
and	production	of	our	Solar	Roof	and	other	solar	products	and	components,	energy	storage	components	and	Supercharger	components,	and	for	other
	
lessor-approved	functions.	Under	this	agreement,	we	are	obligated	to,	among	other	things,	meet	employment	targets	as	well	as	specified	minimum
	
numbers	of	personnel	in	the	State	of	New	York	and	in	Buffalo,	New	York	and	spend	or	incur	$5.00	billion	in	combined	capital,	operational	expenses,
	
costs	of	goods	sold	and	other	costs	in	the	State	of	New	York	during	a	period	that	was	initially	10	years	beginning	April	30,	2018.	As	of	December	31,
	
2022,	we	are	currently	in	excess	of	such	targets	relating	to	investments	and	personnel	in	the	State	of	New	York	and	Buffalo.	While	we	expect	to	have
	
and	grow	significant	operations	at	Gigafactory	New	York	and	the	surrounding	Buffalo	area,	any	failure	by	us	in	any	year	over	the	course	of	the	term	of
	
the	agreement	to	meet	all	applicable	future	obligations	may	result	in	our	obligation	to	pay	a	“program	payment”	of	$41	million	to	the	SUNY	Foundation
	
for	such	year,	the	termination	of	our	lease	at	Gigafactory	New	York	which	may	require	us	to	pay	additional	penalties,	and/or	the	need	to	adjust	certain
	
of	our	operations,	in	particular	our	production	ramp	of	the	Solar	Roof	or	other	components.	Any	of	the	foregoing	events	may	harm	our	business,
	
financial	condition	and	operating	results.
If	we	are	unable	to	attract,	hire	and	retain	key	employees	and	qualified	personnel,	our	ability	to	compete	may	be	harmed.
The	loss	of	the	services	of	any	of	our	key	employees	or	any	significant	portion	of	our	workforce	could	disrupt	our	operations	or	delay	the
	
development,	introduction	and	ramp	of	our	products	and	services.	In	particular,	we	are	highly	dependent	on	the	services	of	Elon	Musk,	Technoking	of
	
Tesla	and	our	Chief	Executive	Officer.	None	of	our	key	employees	is	bound	by	an	employment	agreement	for	any	specific	term	and	we	may	not	be	able
	
to	successfully	attract	and	retain	senior	leadership	necessary	to	grow	our	business.	Our	future	success	also	depends	upon	our	ability	to	attract,	hire	and
	
retain	a	large	number	of	engineering,	manufacturing,	marketing,	sales	and	delivery,	service,	installation,	technology	and	support	personnel,	especially
	
to	support	our	planned	high-volume	product	sales,	market	and	geographical	expansion	and	technological	innovations.	If	we	are	not	successful	in
	
managing	these	risks,	our	business,	financial	condition	and	operating	results	may	be	harmed.
Employees	may	leave	Tesla	or	choose	other	employers	over	Tesla	due	to	various	factors,	such	as	a	very	competitive	labor	market	for	talented
	
individuals	with	automotive	or	technology	experience,	or	any	negative	publicity	related	to	us.	In	regions	where	we	have	or	will	have	operations,
	
particularly	significant	engineering	and	manufacturing	centers,	there	is	strong	competition	for	individuals	with	skillsets	needed	for	our	business,
	
including	specialized	knowledge	of	electric	vehicles,	engineering	and	electrical	and	building	construction	expertise.	Moreover,	we	may	be	impacted	by
	
perceptions	relating	to	reductions	in	force	that	we	have	conducted	in	the	past	in	order	to	optimize	our	organizational	structure	and	reduce	costs	and	the
	
departure	of	certain	senior	personnel	for	various	reasons.	We	also	compete	with	both	mature	and	prosperous	companies	that	have	far	greater	financial
	
resources	than	we	do	and	start-ups	and	emerging	companies	that	promise	short-term	growth	opportunities.
Finally,	our	compensation	philosophy	for	all	of	our	personnel	reflects	our	startup	origins,	with	an	emphasis	on	equity-based	awards	and	benefits
	
in	order	to	closely	align	their	incentives	with	the	long-term	interests	of	our	stockholders.	We	periodically	seek	and	obtain	approval	from	our
	
stockholders	for	future	increases	to	the	number	of	awards	available	under	our	equity	incentive	and	employee	stock	purchase	plans.	If	we	are	unable	to
	
obtain	the	requisite	stockholder	approvals	for	such	future	increases,	we	may	have	to	expend	additional	cash	to	compensate	our	employees	and	our
	
ability	to	retain	and	hire	qualified	personnel	may	be	harmed.
We	are	highly	dependent	on	the	services	of	Elon	Musk,	Technoking	of	Tesla	and	our	Chief	Executive	Officer.
We	are	highly	dependent	on	the	services	of	Elon	Musk,	Technoking	of	Tesla	and	our	Chief	Executive	Officer.	Although	Mr.	Musk	spends
	
significant	time	with	Tesla	and	is	highly	active	in	our	management,	he	does	not	devote	his	full	time	and	attention	to	Tesla.	Mr.	Musk	also	currently
	
serves	as	Chief	Executive	Officer	and	Chief	Technical	Officer	of	Space	Exploration	Technologies	Corp.,	a	developer	and	manufacturer	of	space	launch
	
vehicles,	Chief	Executive	Officer	of	Twitter,	Inc.,	a	social	media	company,	and	is	involved	in	other	emerging	technology	ventures.
20	
Our	information	technology	systems	or	data,	or	those	of	our	service	providers	or	customers	or	users	could	be	subject	to	cyber-
attacks	or	other	security	incidents,	which	could	result	in	data	breaches,	intellectual	property	theft,	claims,	litigation,	regulatory
	
investigations,	significant	liability,	reputational	damage	and	other	adverse	consequences.
	
We	continue	to	expand	our	information	technology	systems	as	our	operations	grow,	such	as	product	data	management,	procurement,	inventory
	
management,	production	planning	and	execution,	sales,	service	and	logistics,	dealer	management,	financial,	tax	and	regulatory	compliance	systems.
	
This	includes	the	implementation	of	new	internally	developed	systems	and	the	deployment	of	such	systems	in	the	U.S.	and	abroad.	While,	we	maintain
	
information	technology	measures	designed	to	protect	us	against	intellectual	property	theft,	data	breaches,	sabotage	and	other	external	or	internal
	
cyber-attacks	or	misappropriation,	our	systems	and	those	of	our	service	providers	are	potentially	vulnerable	to	malware,	ransomware,	viruses,	denial-of-
service	attacks,	phishing	attacks,	social	engineering,	computer	hacking,	unauthorized	access,	exploitation	of	bugs,	defects	and	vulnerabilities,
	
breakdowns,	damage,	interruptions,	system	malfunctions,	power	outages,	terrorism,	acts	of	vandalism,	security	breaches,	security	incidents,
	
inadvertent	or	intentional	actions	by	employees	or	other	third	parties,	and	other	cyber-attacks.
	
To	the	extent	any	security	incident	results	in	unauthorized	access	or	damage	to	or	acquisition,	use,	corruption,	loss,	destruction,	alteration	or
	
dissemination	of	our	data,	including	intellectual	property	and	personal	information,	or	our	products	or	vehicles,	or	for	it	to	be	believed	or	reported	that
	
any	of	these	occurred,	it	could	disrupt	our	business,	harm	our	reputation,	compel	us	to	comply	with	applicable	data	breach	notification	laws,	subject	us
	
to	time	consuming,	distracting	and	expensive	litigation,	regulatory	investigation	and	oversight,	mandatory	corrective	action,	require	us	to	verify	the
	
correctness	of	database	contents,	or	otherwise	subject	us	to	liability	under	laws,	regulations	and	contractual	obligations,	including	those	that	protect
	
the	privacy	and	security	of	personal	information.	This	could	result	in	increased	costs	to	us	and	result	in	significant	legal	and	financial	exposure	and/or
	
reputational	harm.
	
We	also	rely	on	service	providers,	and	similar	incidents	relating	to	their	information	technology	systems	could	also	have	a	material	adverse	effect
	
on	our	business.	There	have	been	and	may	continue	to	be	significant	supply	chain	attacks.	Our	service	providers,	including	our	workforce	management
	
software	provider,	have	been	subject	to	ransomware	and	other	security	incidents,	and	we	cannot	guarantee	that	our	or	our	service	providers’	systems
	
have	not	been	breached	or	that	they	do	not	contain	exploitable	defects,	bugs,	or	vulnerabilities	that	could	result	in	a	security	incident,	or	other
	
disruption	to,	our	or	our	service	providers’	systems.	Our	ability	to	monitor	our	service	providers’	security	measures	is	limited,	and,	in	any	event,
	
malicious	third	parties	may	be	able	to	circumvent	those	security	measures.
	
Further,	the	implementation,	maintenance,	segregation	and	improvement	of	these	systems	require	significant	management	time,	support	and
	
cost,	and	there	are	inherent	risks	associated	with	developing,	improving	and	expanding	our	core	systems	as	well	as	implementing	new	systems	and
	
updating	current	systems,	including	disruptions	to	the	related	areas	of	business	operation.	These	risks	may	affect	our	ability	to	manage	our	data	and
	
inventory,	procure	parts	or	supplies	or	manufacture,	sell,	deliver	and	service	products,	adequately	protect	our	intellectual	property	or	achieve	and
	
maintain	compliance	with,	or	realize	available	benefits	under,	tax	laws	and	other	applicable	regulations.
	
Moreover,	if	we	do	not	successfully	implement,	maintain	or	expand	these	systems	as	planned,	our	operations	may	be	disrupted,	our	ability	to
	
accurately	and/or	timely	report	our	financial	results	could	be	impaired	and	deficiencies	may	arise	in	our	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	which
	
may	impact	our	ability	to	certify	our	financial	results.	Moreover,	our	proprietary	information,	including	intellectual	property	and	personal	information,
	
could	be	compromised	or	misappropriated	and	our	reputation	may	be	adversely	affected.	If	these	systems	or	their	functionality	do	not	operate	as	we
	
expect	them	to,	we	may	be	required	to	expend	significant	resources	to	make	corrections	or	find	alternative	sources	for	performing	these	functions.
Any	unauthorized	control	or	manipulation	of	our	products’	systems	could	result	in	loss	of	confidence	in	us	and	our	products.
Our	products	contain	complex	information	technology	systems.	For	example,	our	vehicles	and	energy	storage	products	are	designed	with	built-in
	
data	connectivity	to	accept	and	install	periodic	remote	updates	from	us	to	improve	or	update	their	functionality.	While	we	have	implemented	security
	
measures	intended	to	prevent	unauthorized	access	to	our	information	technology	networks,	our	products	and	their	systems,	malicious	entities	have
	
reportedly	attempted,	and	may	attempt	in	the	future,	to	gain	unauthorized	access	to	modify,	alter	and	use	such	networks,	products	and	systems	to	gain
	
control	of,	or	to	change,	our	products’	functionality,	user	interface	and	performance	characteristics	or	to	gain	access	to	data	stored	in	or	generated	by
	
our	products.	We	encourage	reporting	of	potential	vulnerabilities	in	the	security	of	our	products	through	our	security	vulnerability	reporting	policy,	and
	
we	aim	to	remedy	any	reported	and	verified	vulnerability.	However,	there	can	be	no	assurance	that	any	vulnerabilities	will	not	be	exploited	before	they
	
can	be	identified,	or	that	our	remediation	efforts	are	or	will	be	successful.
Any	unauthorized	access	to	or	control	of	our	products	or	their	systems	or	any	loss	of	data	could	result	in	legal	claims	or	government
	
investigations.	In	addition,	regardless	of	their	veracity,	reports	of	unauthorized	access	to	our	products,	their	systems	or	data,	as	well	as	other	factors
	
that	may	result	in	the	perception	that	our	products,	their	systems	or	data	are	capable	of	being	hacked,	may	harm	our	brand,	prospects	and	operating
	
results.	We	have	been	the	subject	of	such	reports	in	the	past.
21	
Our	business	may	be	adversely	affected	by	any	disruptions	caused	by	union	activities.
	
It	is	not	uncommon	for	employees	of	certain	trades	at	companies	such	as	ours	to	belong	to	a	union,	which	can	result	in	higher	employee	costs
	
and	increased	risk	of	work	stoppages.	Moreover,	regulations	in	some	jurisdictions	outside	of	the	U.S.	mandate	employee	participation	in	industrial
	
collective	bargaining	agreements	and	work	councils	with	certain	consultation	rights	with	respect	to	the	relevant	companies’	operations.	Although	we
	
work	diligently	to	provide	the	best	possible	work	environment	for	our	employees,	they	may	still	decide	to	join	or	seek	recognition	to	form	a	labor	union,
	
or	we	may	be	required	to	become	a	union	signatory.	From	time	to	time,	labor	unions	have	engaged	in	campaigns	to	organize	certain	of	our	operations,
	
as	part	of	which	such	unions	have	filed	unfair	labor	practice	charges	against	us	with	the	National	Labor	Relations	Board	(the	“NLRB”),	and	they	may	do
	
so	in	the	future.	In	September	2019,	an	administrative	law	judge	issued	a	recommended	decision	for	Tesla	on	certain	issues	and	against	us	on	certain
	
others.	In	March	2021,	the	NLRB	adopted	a	portion	of	the	recommendation	and	overturned	others.	Tesla	appealed	the	decision	to	the	United	States
	
Circuit	Court	for	the	Fifth	Circuit,	which	is	currently	pending.	Any	unfavorable	ultimate	outcome	for	Tesla	may	have	a	negative	impact	on	the
	
perception	of	Tesla’s	treatment	of	our	employees.	Furthermore,	we	are	directly	or	indirectly	dependent	upon	companies	with	unionized	work	forces,
	
such	as	suppliers	and	trucking	and	freight	companies.	Any	work	stoppages	or	strikes	organized	by	such	unions	could	delay	the	manufacture	and	sale	of
	
our	products	and	may	harm	our	business	and	operating	results.
We	may	choose	to	or	be	compelled	to	undertake	product	recalls	or	take	other	similar	actions.
	
As	a	manufacturing	company,	we	must	manage	the	risk	of	product	recalls	with	respect	to	our	products.	Recalls	for	our	vehicles	have	resulted
	
from	various	hardware	and	software-related	safety	defect	or	non-compliance	determinations.	In	addition	to	recalls	initiated	by	us	for	various	causes,
	
testing	of	or	investigations	into	our	products	by	government	regulators	or	industry	groups	may	compel	us	to	initiate	product	recalls	or	may	result	in
	
negative	public	perceptions	about	the	safety	of	our	products,	even	if	we	disagree	with	the	defect	determination	or	have	data	that	contradicts	it.	In	the
	
future,	we	may	voluntarily	or	involuntarily	initiate	recalls	if	any	of	our	products	are	determined	by	us	or	a	regulator	to	contain	a	safety	defect	or	be
	
noncompliant	with	applicable	laws	and	regulations,	such	as	U.S.	Federal	Motor	Vehicle	Safety	Standards.	Such	recalls,	whether	voluntary	or
	
involuntary	or	caused	by	systems	or	components	engineered	or	manufactured	by	us	or	our	suppliers,	could	result	in	significant	expense,	supply	chain
	
complications	and	service	burdens,	and	may	harm	our	brand,	business,	prospects,	financial	condition	and	operating	results.
Our	current	and	future	warranty	reserves	may	be	insufficient	to	cover	future	warranty	claims.
	
We	provide	a	manufacturer’s	warranty	on	all	new	and	used	Tesla	vehicles	we	sell.	We	also	provide	certain	warranties	with	respect	to	the	energy
	
generation	and	storage	systems	we	sell,	including	on	their	installation	and	maintenance.	For	components	not	manufactured	by	us,	we	generally	pass
	
through	to	our	customers	the	applicable	manufacturers’	warranties,	but	may	retain	some	warranty	responsibilities	for	some	or	all	of	the	life	of	such
	
components.	As	part	of	our	energy	generation	and	storage	system	contracts,	we	may	provide	the	customer	with	performance	guarantees	that	guarantee
	
that	the	underlying	system	will	meet	or	exceed	the	minimum	energy	generation	or	other	energy	performance	requirements	specified	in	the	contract.
	
Under	these	performance	guarantees,	we	generally	bear	the	risk	of	electricity	production	or	other	performance	shortfalls,	including	in	some	cases
	
shortfalls	caused	by	failures	in	components	from	third	party	manufacturers.	These	risks	are	exacerbated	in	the	event	such	manufacturers	cease
	
operations	or	fail	to	honor	their	warranties.
If	our	warranty	reserves	are	inadequate	to	cover	future	warranty	claims	on	our	products,	our	financial	condition	and	operating	results	may	be
	
harmed.	Warranty	reserves	include	our	management’s	best	estimates	of	the	projected	costs	to	repair	or	to	replace	items	under	warranty,	which	are
	
based	on	actual	claims	incurred	to	date	and	an	estimate	of	the	nature,	frequency	and	costs	of	future	claims.	Such	estimates	are	inherently	uncertain	and
	
changes	to	our	historical	or	projected	experience,	especially	with	respect	to	products	that	we	have	introduced	relatively	recently	and/or	that	we	expect
	
to	produce	at	significantly	greater	volumes	than	our	past	products,	may	cause	material	changes	to	our	warranty	reserves	in	the	future.
Our	insurance	coverage	strategy	may	not	be	adequate	to	protect	us	from	all	business	risks.
We	may	be	subject,	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business,	to	losses	resulting	from	products	liability,	accidents,	acts	of	God	and	other	claims	against
	
us,	for	which	we	may	have	no	insurance	coverage.	As	a	general	matter,	we	do	not	maintain	as	much	insurance	coverage	as	many	other	companies	do,
	
and	in	some	cases,	we	do	not	maintain	any	at	all.	Additionally,	the	policies	that	we	do	have	may	include	significant	deductibles	or	self-insured
	
retentions,	policy	limitations	and	exclusions,	and	we	cannot	be	certain	that	our	insurance	coverage	will	be	sufficient	to	cover	all	future	losses	or	claims
	
against	us.	A	loss	that	is	uninsured	or	which	exceeds	policy	limits	may	require	us	to	pay	substantial	amounts,	which	may	harm	our	financial	condition
	
and	operating	results.
22	
Our	debt	agreements	contain	covenant	restrictions	that	may	limit	our	ability	to	operate	our	business.
	
The	terms	of	certain	of	our	debt	facilities	contain,	and	any	of	our	other	future	debt	agreements	may	contain,	covenant	restrictions	that	may	limit
	
our	ability	to	operate	our	business,	including	restrictions	on	our	and/or	our	subsidiaries’	ability	to,	among	other	things,	incur	additional	debt	or	create
	
liens.	In	addition,	under	certain	circumstances	we	are	required	to	comply	with	a	fixed	charge	coverage	ratio.	As	a	result	of	these	covenants,	our	ability
	
to	respond	to	changes	in	business	and	economic	conditions	and	engage	in	beneficial	transactions,	including	to	obtain	additional	financing	as	needed,
	
may	be	restricted.	Furthermore,	our	failure	to	comply	with	our	debt	covenants	could	result	in	a	default	under	our	debt	agreements,	which	could	permit
	
the	holders	to	accelerate	our	obligation	to	repay	the	debt.	If	any	of	our	debt	is	accelerated,	we	may	not	have	sufficient	funds	available	to	repay	it.
Additional	funds	may	not	be	available	to	us	when	we	need	or	want	them.
Our	business	and	our	future	plans	for	expansion	are	capital-intensive,	and	the	specific	timing	of	cash	inflows	and	outflows	may	fluctuate
	
substantially	from	period	to	period.	We	may	need	or	want	to	raise	additional	funds	through	the	issuance	of	equity,	equity-related	or	debt	securities	or
	
through	obtaining	credit	from	financial	institutions	to	fund,	together	with	our	principal	sources	of	liquidity,	the	costs	of	developing	and	manufacturing
	
our	current	or	future	products,	to	pay	any	significant	unplanned	or	accelerated	expenses	or	for	new	significant	strategic	investments,	or	to	refinance
	
our	significant	consolidated	indebtedness,	even	if	not	required	to	do	so	by	the	terms	of	such	indebtedness.	We	cannot	be	certain	that	additional	funds
	
will	be	available	to	us	on	favorable	terms	when	required,	or	at	all.	If	we	cannot	raise	additional	funds	when	we	need	them,	our	financial	condition,
	
results	of	operations,	business	and	prospects	could	be	materially	and	adversely	affected.
We	may	be	negatively	impacted	by	any	early	obsolescence	of	our	manufacturing	equipment.
We	depreciate	the	cost	of	our	manufacturing	equipment	over	their	expected	useful	lives.	However,	product	cycles	or	manufacturing	technology
	
may	change	periodically,	and	we	may	decide	to	update	our	products	or	manufacturing	processes	more	quickly	than	expected.	Moreover,	improvements
	
in	engineering	and	manufacturing	expertise	and	efficiency	may	result	in	our	ability	to	manufacture	our	products	using	less	of	our	currently	installed
	
equipment.	Alternatively,	as	we	ramp	and	mature	the	production	of	our	products	to	higher	levels,	we	may	discontinue	the	use	of	already	installed
	
equipment	in	favor	of	different	or	additional	equipment.	The	useful	life	of	any	equipment	that	would	be	retired	early	as	a	result	would	be	shortened,
	
causing	the	depreciation	on	such	equipment	to	be	accelerated,	and	our	results	of	operations	may	be	harmed.
There	is	no	guarantee	that	we	will	have	sufficient	cash	flow	from	our	business	to	pay	our	indebtedness	or	that	we	will	not	incur
	
additional	indebtedness.
As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	and	our	subsidiaries	had	outstanding	$2.06	billion	in	aggregate	principal	amount	of	indebtedness	(see	Note	11,
	
Debt
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K).	Our	consolidated	indebtedness	may	increase	our
	
vulnerability	to	any	generally	adverse	economic	and	industry	conditions.	We	and	our	subsidiaries	may,	subject	to	the	limitations	in	the	terms	of	our
	
existing	and	future	indebtedness,	incur	additional	debt,	secure	existing	or	future	debt	or	recapitalize	our	debt.
	
Our	ability	to	make	scheduled	payments	of	the	principal	and	interest	on	our	indebtedness	when	due,	to	make	payments	upon	conversion	or
	
repurchase	demands	with	respect	to	our	convertible	senior	notes	or	to	refinance	our	indebtedness	as	we	may	need	or	desire,	depends	on	our	future
	
performance,	which	is	subject	to	economic,	financial,	competitive	and	other	factors	beyond	our	control.	Our	business	may	not	continue	to	generate	cash
	
flow	from	operations	in	the	future	sufficient	to	satisfy	our	obligations	under	our	existing	indebtedness	and	any	future	indebtedness	we	may	incur,	and	to
	
make	necessary	capital	expenditures.	If	we	are	unable	to	generate	such	cash	flow,	we	may	be	required	to	adopt	one	or	more	alternatives,	such	as
	
reducing	or	delaying	investments	or	capital	expenditures,	selling	assets,	refinancing	or	obtaining	additional	equity	capital	on	terms	that	may	be	onerous
	
or	highly	dilutive.	Our	ability	to	refinance	existing	or	future	indebtedness	will	depend	on	the	capital	markets	and	our	financial	condition	at	such	time.	In
	
addition,	our	ability	to	make	payments	may	be	limited	by	law,	by	regulatory	authority	or	by	agreements	governing	our	future	indebtedness.	We	may	not
	
be	able	to	engage	in	these	activities	on	desirable	terms	or	at	all,	which	may	result	in	a	default	on	our	existing	or	future	indebtedness	and	harm	our
	
financial	condition	and	operating	results.
23	
We	are	exposed	to	fluctuations	in	currency	exchange	rates.
We	transact	business	globally	in	multiple	currencies	and	have	foreign	currency	risks	related	to	our	revenue,	costs	of	revenue,	operating	expenses
	
and	localized	subsidiary	debt	denominated	in	currencies	other	than	the	U.S.	dollar,	currently	primarily	the	Chinese	yuan,	euro,	pound	sterling	and
	
Norwegian	krone.	To	the	extent	we	have	significant	revenues	denominated	in	such	foreign	currencies,	any	strengthening	of	the	U.S.	dollar	would	tend
	
to	reduce	our	revenues	as	measured	in	U.S.	dollars,	as	we	have	historically	experienced,	and	are	currently	experiencing.	In	addition,	a	portion	of	our
	
costs	and	expenses	have	been,	and	we	anticipate	will	continue	to	be,	denominated	in	foreign	currencies,	including	the	Chinese	yuan	and	Japanese	yen.
	
If	we	do	not	have	fully	offsetting	revenues	in	these	currencies	and	if	the	value	of	the	U.S.	dollar	depreciates	significantly	against	these	currencies,	our
	
costs	as	measured	in	U.S.	dollars	as	a	percent	of	our	revenues	will	correspondingly	increase	and	our	margins	will	suffer.	Moreover,	while	we	undertake
	
limited	hedging	activities	intended	to	offset	the	impact	of	currency	translation	exposure,	it	is	impossible	to	predict	or	eliminate	such	impact.	As	a	result,
	
our	operating	results	may	be	harmed.
We	may	need	to	defend	ourselves	against	intellectual	property	infringement	claims,	which	may	be	time-consuming	and	expensive.
	
Our	competitors	or	other	third	parties	may	hold	or	obtain	patents,	copyrights,	trademarks	or	other	proprietary	rights	that	could	prevent,	limit	or
	
interfere	with	our	ability	to	make,	use,	develop,	sell	or	market	our	products	and	services,	which	could	make	it	more	difficult	for	us	to	operate	our
	
business.	From	time	to	time,	the	holders	of	such	intellectual	property	rights	may	assert	their	rights	and	urge	us	to	take	licenses	and/or	may	bring	suits
	
alleging	infringement	or	misappropriation	of	such	rights,	which	could	result	in	substantial	costs,	negative	publicity	and	management	attention,
	
regardless	of	merit.	While	we	endeavor	to	obtain	and	protect	the	intellectual	property	rights	that	we	expect	will	allow	us	to	retain	or	advance	our
	
strategic	initiatives,	there	can	be	no	assurance	that	we	will	be	able	to	adequately	identify	and	protect	the	portions	of	intellectual	property	that	are
	
strategic	to	our	business,	or	mitigate	the	risk	of	potential	suits	or	other	legal	demands	by	our	competitors.	Accordingly,	we	may	consider	the	entering
	
into	licensing	agreements	with	respect	to	such	rights,	although	no	assurance	can	be	given	that	such	licenses	can	be	obtained	on	acceptable	terms	or
	
that	litigation	will	not	occur,	and	such	licenses	and	associated	litigation	could	significantly	increase	our	operating	expenses.	In	addition,	if	we	are
	
determined	to	have	or	believe	there	is	a	high	likelihood	that	we	have	infringed	upon	a	third	party’s	intellectual	property	rights,	we	may	be	required	to
	
cease	making,	selling	or	incorporating	certain	components	or	intellectual	property	into	the	goods	and	services	we	offer,	to	pay	substantial	damages
	
and/or	license	royalties,	to	redesign	our	products	and	services	and/or	to	establish	and	maintain	alternative	branding	for	our	products	and	services.	In
	
the	event	that	we	are	required	to	take	one	or	more	such	actions,	our	brand,	business,	financial	condition	and	operating	results	may	be	harmed.
Increased	scrutiny	and	changing	expectations	from	stakeholders	with	respect	to	the	Company’s	ESG	practices	may	result	in
	
additional	costs	or	risks.
Companies	across	many	industries	are	facing	increasing	scrutiny	related	to	their	environmental,	social	and	governance	(ESG)	practices.	Investor
	
advocacy	groups,	certain	institutional	investors,	investment	funds	and	other	influential	investors	are	also	increasingly	focused	on	ESG	practices	and	in
	
recent	years	have	placed	increasing	importance	on	the	non-financial	impacts	of	their	investments.	While	our	mission	is	to	accelerate	the	world’s
	
transition	to	sustainable	energy,	if	our	ESG	practices	do	not	meet	investor	or	other	industry	stakeholder	expectations,	which	continue	to	evolve,	we	may
	
incur	additional	costs	and	our	brand,	ability	to	attract	and	retain	qualified	employees	and	business	may	be	harmed.
	
Our	operations	could	be	adversely	affected	by	events	outside	of	our	control,	such	as	natural	disasters,	wars	or	health	epidemics.
	
We	may	be	impacted	by	natural	disasters,	wars,	health	epidemics,	weather	conditions,	the	long-term	effects	of	climate	change,	power	outages	or
	
other	events	outside	of	our	control.	For	example,	our	Fremont	Factory	and	Gigafactory	Nevada	are	located	in	seismically	active	regions	in	Northern
	
California	and	Nevada,	and	our	Gigafactory	Shanghai	is	located	in	a	flood-prone	area.	Moreover,	the	area	in	which	our	Gigafactory	Texas	is	located
	
experienced	severe	winter	storms	in	the	first	quarter	of	2021	that	had	a	widespread	impact	on	utilities	and	transportation.	If	major	disasters	such	as
	
earthquakes,	floods	or	other	climate-related	events	occur,	or	our	information	system	or	communication	breaks	down	or	operates	improperly,	our
	
headquarters	and	production	facilities	may	be	seriously	damaged,	or	we	may	have	to	stop	or	delay	production	and	shipment	of	our	products.	In	addition,
	
the	global	COVID-19	pandemic	has	impacted	economic	markets,	manufacturing	operations,	supply	chains,	employment	and	consumer	behavior	in	nearly
	
every	geographic	region	and	industry	across	the	world,	and	we	have	been,	and	may	in	the	future	be,	adversely	affected	as	a	result.	Also,	the	broader
	
consequences	in	the	current	conflict	between	Russia	and	Ukraine,	which	may	include	further	embargoes,	regional	instability	and	geopolitical	shifts;
	
airspace	bans	relating	to	certain	routes,	or	strategic	decisions	to	alter	certain	routes;	and	potential	retaliatory	action	by	the	Russian	government	against
	
companies,	and	the	extent	of	the	conflict	on	our	business	and	operating	results	cannot	be	predicted.	We	may	incur	expenses	or	delays	relating	to	such
	
events	outside	of	our	control,	which	could	have	a	material	adverse	impact	on	our	business,	operating	results	and	financial	condition.
24	
Risks	Related	to	Government	Laws	and	Regulations
Demand	for	our	products	and	services	may	be	impacted	by	the	status	of	government	and	economic	incentives	supporting	the
	
development	and	adoption	of	such	products.
Government	and	economic	incentives	that	support	the	development	and	adoption	of	electric	vehicles	in	the	U.S.	and	abroad,	including	certain	tax
	
exemptions,	tax	credits	and	rebates,	may	be	reduced,	eliminated	or	exhausted	from	time	to	time.	For	example,	previously	available	incentives	favoring
	
electric	vehicles	in	areas	including	Ontario,	Canada,	Netherlands,	Italy,	Hong	Kong	and	California	have	expired	or	were	cancelled	or	temporarily
	
unavailable,	and	in	some	cases	were	not	eventually	replaced	or	reinstituted,	which	may	have	negatively	impacted	sales.	Certain	government	and
	
economic	incentives,	similar	to	the	IRA,	may	also	be	implemented	that	provide	benefits	to	manufacturers	who	assemble	domestically,	have	local
	
suppliers	or	have	other	characteristics	that	may	not	apply	to	Tesla.	Such	developments	could	negatively	impact	demand	for	our	vehicles,	and	we	and
	
our	customers	may	have	to	adjust	to	them,	including	through	pricing	modifications.
In	addition,	certain	governmental	rebates,	tax	credits	and	other	financial	incentives	that	are	currently	available	with	respect	to	our	solar	and
	
energy	storage	product	businesses	allow	us	to	lower	our	costs	and	encourage	customers	to	buy	our	products	and	investors	to	invest	in	our	solar
	
financing	funds.	However,	these	incentives	may	expire	when	the	allocated	funding	is	exhausted,	reduced	or	terminated	as	renewable	energy	adoption
	
rates	increase,	sometimes	without	warning.	Likewise,	in	jurisdictions	where	net	metering	is	currently	available,	our	customers	receive	bill	credits	from
	
utilities	for	energy	that	their	solar	energy	systems	generate	and	export	to	the	grid	in	excess	of	the	electric	load	they	use.	The	benefit	available	under	net
	
metering	has	been	or	has	been	proposed	to	be	reduced,	altered	or	eliminated	in	several	jurisdictions,	and	has	also	been	contested	and	may	continue	to
	
be	contested	before	the	Federal	Energy	Regulatory	Commission.	Any	reductions	or	terminations	of	such	incentives	may	harm	our	business,	prospects,
	
financial	condition	and	operating	results	by	making	our	products	less	competitive	for	customers,	increasing	our	cost	of	capital	and	adversely	impacting
	
our	ability	to	attract	investment	partners	and	to	form	new	financing	funds	for	our	solar	and	energy	storage	assets.
	
Finally,	we	and	our	fund	investors	claim	these	U.S.	federal	tax	credits	and	certain	state	incentives	in	amounts	based	on	independently	appraised
	
fair	market	values	of	our	solar	and	energy	storage	systems.	Some	governmental	authorities	have	audited	such	values	and	in	certain	cases	have
	
determined	that	these	values	should	be	lower,	and	they	may	do	so	again	in	the	future.	Such	determinations	may	result	in	adverse	tax	consequences
	
and/or	our	obligation	to	make	indemnification	or	other	payments	to	our	funds	or	fund	investors.
We	are	subject	to	evolving	laws	and	regulations	that	could	impose	substantial	costs,	legal	prohibitions	or	unfavorable	changes
	
upon	our	operations	or	products.
	
As	we	grow	our	manufacturing	operations	in	additional	regions,	we	are	or	will	be	subject	to	complex	environmental,	manufacturing,	health	and
	
safety	laws	and	regulations	at	numerous	jurisdictional	levels	in	the	U.S.,	China,	Germany	and	other	locations	abroad,	including	laws	relating	to	the	use,
	
handling,	storage,	recycling,	disposal	and/or	human	exposure	to	hazardous	materials,	product	material	inputs	and	post-consumer	products	and	with
	
respect	to	constructing,	expanding	and	maintaining	our	facilities.	New,	or	changes	in,	environmental	and	climate	change	laws,	regulations	or	rules
	
could	also	lead	to	increased	costs	of	compliance,	including	remediations	of	any	discovered	issues,	and	changes	to	our	operations,	which	may	be
	
significant,	and	any	failures	to	comply	could	result	in	significant	expenses,	delays	or	fines.	In	addition,	as	we	have	increased	our	employee	headcount
	
and	operations,	we	are	and	may	continue	to	be	subject	to	increased	scrutiny,	including	litigation	and	government	investigations	relating	to	allegations
	
such	as	discrimination	and	workplace	misconduct,	that	we	will	need	to	defend	against.	If	we	are	unable	to	successfully	defend	ourselves	in	such
	
litigation	or	government	investigations,	it	may	harm	our	brand,	ability	to	attract	and	retain	qualified	employees,	business	and	financial	condition.	We
	
are	also	subject	to	laws	and	regulations	applicable	to	the	supply,	manufacture,	import,	sale,	service	and	performance	of	our	products	both	domestically
	
and	abroad.	For	example,	in	countries	outside	of	the	U.S.,	we	are	required	to	meet	standards	relating	to	vehicle	safety,	fuel	economy	and	emissions	that
	
are	often	materially	different	from	equivalent	requirements	in	the	U.S.,	thus	resulting	in	additional	investment	into	the	vehicles	and	systems	to	ensure
	
regulatory	compliance	in	all	countries.	This	process	may	include	official	review	and	certification	of	our	vehicles	by	foreign	regulatory	agencies	prior	to
	
market	entry,	as	well	as	compliance	with	foreign	reporting	and	recall	management	systems	requirements.
In	particular,	we	offer	in	our	vehicles	in	certain	markets	Autopilot	and	FSD	Capability	features	that	today	assist	drivers	with	certain	tedious	and
	
potentially	dangerous	aspects	of	road	travel,	but	which	currently	require	drivers	to	remain	fully	engaged	in	the	driving	operation.	We	are	continuing	to
	
develop	our	Autopilot	and	FSD	Capability	technology.	There	are	a	variety	of	international,	federal	and	state	regulations	that	may	apply	to,	and	may
	
adversely	affect,	the	design	and	performance,	sale,	registration	and	operation	of	Autopilot	and	FSD	Capability,	and	future	capability,	including	full	self-
driving	vehicles	that	may	not	be	operated	by	a	human	driver.	This	includes	many	existing	vehicle	standards	that	were	not	originally	intended	to	apply	to
	
vehicles	that	may	not	be	operated	by	a	human	driver.	Such	regulations	continue	to	rapidly	change,	which	increases	the	likelihood	of	a	patchwork	of
	
complex	or	conflicting	regulations,	or	may	delay,	restrict	or	prohibit	the	availability	of	certain	functionalities	and	vehicle	designs,	which	could	adversely
	
affect	our	business.
Finally,	as	a	manufacturer,	installer	and	service	provider	with	respect	to	solar	generation	and	energy	storage	systems,	a	supplier	of	electricity
	
generated	and	stored	by	certain	of	the	solar	energy	and	energy	storage	systems	we	install	for	customers,	and	a	provider	of
	
25	
grid	services	through	virtual	power	plant	models,	we	are	impacted	by	federal,	state	and	local	regulations	and	policies	concerning	the	import	or	export	of
	
components,	electricity	pricing,	the	interconnection	of	electricity	generation	and	storage	equipment	with	the	electrical	grid	and	the	sale	of	electricity
	
generated	by	third	party-owned	systems.	If	regulations	and	policies	are	introduced	that	adversely	impact	the	import	or	export	of	components,	or	the
	
interconnection,	maintenance	or	use	of	our	solar	and	energy	storage	systems,	they	could	deter	potential	customers	from	purchasing	our	solar	and
	
energy	storage	products	and	services,	threaten	the	economics	of	our	existing	contracts	and	cause	us	to	cease	solar	and	energy	storage	system	sales	and
	
services	in	the	relevant	jurisdictions,	which	may	harm	our	business,	financial	condition	and	operating	results.
Any	failure	by	us	to	comply	with	a	variety	of	U.S.	and	international	privacy	and	consumer	protection	laws	may	harm	us.
	
Any	failure	by	us	or	our	vendor	or	other	business	partners	to	comply	with	our	public	privacy	notice	or	with	federal,	state	or	international	privacy,
	
data	protection	or	security	laws	or	regulations	relating	to	the	processing,	collection,	use,	retention,	security	and	transfer	of	personally	identifiable
	
information	could	result	in	regulatory	or	litigation-related	actions	against	us,	legal	liability,	fines,	damages,	ongoing	audit	requirements	and	other
	
significant	costs.	Substantial	expenses	and	operational	changes	may	be	required	in	connection	with	maintaining	compliance	with	such	laws,	and	even
	
an	unsuccessful	challenge	by	customers	or	regulatory	authorities	of	our	activities	could	result	in	adverse	publicity	and	could	require	a	costly	response
	
from	and	defense	by	us.	In	addition,	certain	emerging	privacy	laws	are	still	subject	to	a	high	degree	of	uncertainty	as	to	their	interpretation,	application
	
and	impact,	and	may	require	extensive	system	and	operational	changes,	be	difficult	to	implement,	increase	our	operating	costs,	adversely	impact	the
	
cost	or	attractiveness	of	the	products	or	services	we	offer,	or	result	in	adverse	publicity	and	harm	our	reputation.	For	example,	the	General	Data
	
Protection	Regulation	applies	to	the	processing	of	personal	information	collected	from	individuals	located	in	the	European	Union,	and	has	created	new
	
compliance	obligations	and	significantly	increased	fines	for	noncompliance.	Similarly,	the	California	Consumer	Privacy	Act	imposes	certain	legal
	
obligations	on	our	use	and	processing	of	personal	information	related	to	California	residents.	Finally,	new	privacy	and	cybersecurity	laws	have	come
	
into	effect	in	China.	In	addition	to	the	risks	related	to	general	privacy	regulation,	we	may	also	be	subject	to	specific	vehicle	manufacturer	obligations
	
relating	to	cybersecurity,	data	privacy	and	data	localization	requirements	which	place	additional	risks	to	our	international	operations.	Risks	and
	
penalties	could	include	ongoing	audit	requirements,	data	protection	authority	investigations,	legal	proceedings	by	international	governmental	entities
	
or	others	resulting	in	mandated	disclosure	of	sensitive	data	or	other	commercially	unfavorable	terms.	Notwithstanding	our	efforts	to	protect	the
	
security	and	integrity	of	our	customers’	personal	information,	we	may	be	required	to	expend	significant	resources	to	comply	with	data	breach
	
requirements	if,	for	example,	third	parties	improperly	obtain	and	use	the	personal	information	of	our	customers	or	we	otherwise	experience	a	data	loss
	
with	respect	to	customers’	personal	information.	A	major	breach	of	our	network	security	and	systems	may	result	in	fines,	penalties	and	damages	and
	
harm	our	brand,	prospects	and	operating	results.
We	could	be	subject	to	liability,	penalties	and	other	restrictive	sanctions	and	adverse	consequences	arising	out	of	certain
	
governmental	investigations	and	proceedings.
We	are	cooperating	with	certain	government	investigations	as	discussed	in	Note	15,	
Commitments	and	Contingencies
,	to	the	consolidated
	
financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.	To	our	knowledge,	no	government	agency	in	any	such	ongoing
	
investigation	has	concluded	that	any	wrongdoing	occurred.	However,	we	cannot	predict	the	outcome	or	impact	of	any	such	ongoing	matters,	and	there
	
exists	the	possibility	that	we	could	be	subject	to	liability,	penalties	and	other	restrictive	sanctions	and	adverse	consequences	if	the	SEC,	the	U.S.
	
Department	of	Justice	or	any	other	government	agency	were	to	pursue	legal	action	in	the	future.	Moreover,	we	expect	to	incur	costs	in	responding	to
	
related	requests	for	information	and	subpoenas,	and	if	instituted,	in	defending	against	any	governmental	proceedings.
For	example,	on	October	16,	2018,	the	U.S.	District	Court	for	the	Southern	District	of	New	York	entered	a	final	judgment	approving	the	terms	of
	
a	settlement	filed	with	the	Court	on	September	29,	2018,	in	connection	with	the	actions	taken	by	the	SEC	relating	to	Mr.	Musk’s	statement	on	August	7,
	
2018	that	he	was	considering	taking	Tesla	private.	Pursuant	to	the	settlement,	we,	among	other	things,	paid	a	civil	penalty	of	$20	million,	appointed	an
	
independent	director	as	the	chair	of	our	board	of	directors,	appointed	two	additional	independent	directors	to	our	board	of	directors	and	made	further
	
enhancements	to	our	disclosure	controls	and	other	corporate	governance-related	matters.	On	April	26,	2019,	this	settlement	was	amended	to	clarify
	
certain	of	the	previously-agreed	disclosure	procedures,	which	was	subsequently	approved	by	the	Court.	All	other	terms	of	the	prior	settlement	were
	
reaffirmed	without	modification.	Although	we	intend	to	continue	to	comply	with	the	terms	and	requirements	of	the	settlement,	if	there	is	a	lack	of
	
compliance	or	an	alleged	lack	of	compliance,	additional	enforcement	actions	or	other	legal	proceedings	may	be	instituted	against	us.
26	
We	may	face	regulatory	challenges	to	or	limitations	on	our	ability	to	sell	vehicles	directly.
While	we	intend	to	continue	to	leverage	our	most	effective	sales	strategies,	including	sales	through	our	website,	we	may	not	be	able	to	sell	our
	
vehicles	through	our	own	stores	in	certain	states	in	the	U.S.	with	laws	that	may	be	interpreted	to	impose	limitations	on	this	direct-to-consumer	sales
	
model.	It	has	also	been	asserted	that	the	laws	in	some	states	limit	our	ability	to	obtain	dealer	licenses	from	state	motor	vehicle	regulators,	and	such
	
assertions	persist.	In	certain	locations,	decisions	by	regulators	permitting	us	to	sell	vehicles	have	been,	and	may	be,	challenged	by	dealer	associations
	
and	others	as	to	whether	such	decisions	comply	with	applicable	state	motor	vehicle	industry	laws.	We	have	prevailed	in	many	of	these	lawsuits	and	such
	
results	have	reinforced	our	continuing	belief	that	state	franchise	laws	were	not	intended	to	apply	to	a	manufacturer	that	does	not	have	franchise	dealers
	
anywhere	in	the	world.	In	some	states,	there	have	also	been	regulatory	and	legislative	efforts	by	dealer	associations	to	propose	laws	that,	if	enacted,
	
would	prevent	us	from	obtaining	dealer	licenses	in	their	states	given	our	current	sales	model.	A	few	states	have	passed	legislation	that	clarifies	our
	
ability	to	operate,	but	at	the	same	time	limits	the	number	of	dealer	licenses	we	can	obtain	or	stores	that	we	can	operate.	The	application	of	state	laws
	
applicable	to	our	operations	continues	to	be	difficult	to	predict.
Internationally,	there	may	be	laws	in	jurisdictions	we	have	not	yet	entered	or	laws	we	are	unaware	of	in	jurisdictions	we	have	entered	that	may
	
restrict	our	sales	or	other	business	practices.	Even	for	those	jurisdictions	we	have	analyzed,	the	laws	in	this	area	can	be	complex,	difficult	to	interpret
	
and	may	change	over	time.	Continued	regulatory	limitations	and	other	obstacles	interfering	with	our	ability	to	sell	vehicles	directly	to	consumers	may
	
harm	our	financial	condition	and	operating	results.
Risks	Related	to	the	Ownership	of	Our	Common	Stock
The	trading	price	of	our	common	stock	is	likely	to	continue	to	be	volatile.
The	trading	price	of	our	common	stock	has	been	highly	volatile	and	could	continue	to	be	subject	to	wide	fluctuations	in	response	to	various
	
factors,	some	of	which	are	beyond	our	control.	Our	common	stock	has	experienced	over	the	last	52	weeks	an	intra-day	trading	high	of	$384.29	per
	
share	and	a	low	of	$101.81	per	share,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	three-for-one	stock	split	in	the	form	of	a	stock	dividend	in	August	2022	(the	“2022
	
Stock	Split”).	The	stock	market	in	general,	and	the	market	for	technology	companies	in	particular,	has	experienced	extreme	price	and	volume
	
fluctuations	that	have	often	been	unrelated	or	disproportionate	to	the	operating	performance	of	those	companies.	In	particular,	a	large	proportion	of
	
our	common	stock	has	been	historically	and	may	in	the	future	be	traded	by	short	sellers	which	may	put	pressure	on	the	supply	and	demand	for	our
	
common	stock,	further	influencing	volatility	in	its	market	price.	Public	perception	of	our	company	or	management	and	other	factors	outside	of	our
	
control	may	additionally	impact	the	stock	price	of	companies	like	us	that	garner	a	disproportionate	degree	of	public	attention,	regardless	of	actual
	
operating	performance.	In	addition,	in	the	past,	following	periods	of	volatility	in	the	overall	market	or	the	market	price	of	our	shares,	securities	class
	
action	litigation	has	been	filed	against	us.	While	we	defend	such	actions	vigorously,	any	judgment	against	us	or	any	future	stockholder	litigation	could
	
result	in	substantial	costs	and	a	diversion	of	our	management’s	attention	and	resources.
Our	financial	results	may	vary	significantly	from	period	to	period	due	to	fluctuations	in	our	operating	costs	and	other	factors.
We	expect	our	period-to-period	financial	results	to	vary	based	on	our	operating	costs,	which	we	anticipate	will	fluctuate	as	the	pace	at	which	we
	
continue	to	design,	develop	and	manufacture	new	products	and	increase	production	capacity	by	expanding	our	current	manufacturing	facilities	and
	
adding	future	facilities,	may	not	be	consistent	or	linear	between	periods.	Additionally,	our	revenues	from	period	to	period	may	fluctuate	as	we	introduce
	
existing	products	to	new	markets	for	the	first	time	and	as	we	develop	and	introduce	new	products.	As	a	result	of	these	factors,	we	believe	that	quarter-
to-quarter	comparisons	of	our	financial	results,	especially	in	the	short	term,	are	not	necessarily	meaningful	and	that	these	comparisons	cannot	be	relied
	
upon	as	indicators	of	future	performance.	Moreover,	our	financial	results	may	not	meet	expectations	of	equity	research	analysts,	ratings	agencies	or
	
investors,	who	may	be	focused	only	on	short-term	quarterly	financial	results.	If	any	of	this	occurs,	the	trading	price	of	our	stock	could	fall	substantially,
	
either	suddenly	or	over	time.
We	may	fail	to	meet	our	publicly	announced	guidance	or	other	expectations	about	our	business,	which	could	cause	our	stock	price
	
to	decline.
	
We	may	provide	from	time	to	time	guidance	regarding	our	expected	financial	and	business	performance.	Correctly	identifying	key	factors
	
affecting	business	conditions	and	predicting	future	events	is	inherently	an	uncertain	process,	and	our	guidance	may	not	ultimately	be	accurate	and	has
	
in	the	past	been	inaccurate	in	certain	respects,	such	as	the	timing	of	new	product	manufacturing	ramps.	Our	guidance	is	based	on	certain	assumptions
	
such	as	those	relating	to	anticipated	production	and	sales	volumes	(which	generally	are	not	linear	throughout	a	given	period),	average	sales	prices,
	
supplier	and	commodity	costs	and	planned	cost	reductions.	If	our	guidance	varies	from	actual	results,	such	as	due	to	our	assumptions	not	being	met	or
	
the	impact	on	our	financial	performance	that	could	occur	as	a	result	of	various	risks	and	uncertainties,	the	market	value	of	our	common	stock	could
	
decline	significantly.
27	
If	Elon	Musk	were	forced	to	sell	shares	of	our	common	stock,	either	that	he	has	pledged	to	secure	certain	personal	loan
	
obligations,	or	in	satisfaction	of	other	obligations,	such	sales	could	cause	our	stock	price	to	decline.
Certain	banking	institutions	have	made	extensions	of	credit	to	Elon	Musk,	our	Chief	Executive	Officer,	a	portion	of	which	was	used	to	purchase
	
shares	of	common	stock	in	certain	of	our	public	offerings	and	private	placements	at	the	same	prices	offered	to	third-party	participants	in	such	offerings
	
and	placements.	We	are	not	a	party	to	these	loans,	which	are	partially	secured	by	pledges	of	a	portion	of	the	Tesla	common	stock	currently	owned	by
	
Mr.	Musk.	If	the	price	of	our	common	stock	were	to	decline	substantially,	Mr.	Musk	may	be	forced	by	one	or	more	of	the	banking	institutions	to	sell
	
shares	of	Tesla	common	stock	to	satisfy	his	loan	obligations	if	he	could	not	do	so	through	other	means.	Any	such	sales	could	cause	the	price	of	our
	
common	stock	to	decline	further.	Further,	Mr.	Musk	from	time	to	time	may	commit	to	investing	in	significant	business	or	other	ventures,	and	as	a
	
result,	be	required	to	sell	shares	of	our	common	stock	in	satisfaction	of	such	commitments.
Anti-takeover	provisions	contained	in	our	governing	documents,	applicable	laws	and	our	convertible	senior	notes	could	impair	a
	
takeover	attempt.
Our	certificate	of	incorporation	and	bylaws	afford	certain	rights	and	powers	to	our	board	of	directors	that	may	facilitate	the	delay	or	prevention
	
of	an	acquisition	that	it	deems	undesirable.	We	are	also	subject	to	Section	203	of	the	Delaware	General	Corporation	Law	and	other	provisions	of
	
Delaware	law	that	limit	the	ability	of	stockholders	in	certain	situations	to	effect	certain	business	combinations.	In	addition,	the	terms	of	our	convertible
	
senior	notes	may	require	us	to	repurchase	such	notes	in	the	event	of	a	fundamental	change,	including	a	takeover	of	our	company.	Any	of	the	foregoing
	
provisions	and	terms	that	has	the	effect	of	delaying	or	deterring	a	change	in	control	could	limit	the	opportunity	for	our	stockholders	to	receive	a
	
premium	for	their	shares	of	our	common	stock,	and	could	also	affect	the	price	that	some	investors	are	willing	to	pay	for	our	common	stock.
28	
ITEM	1B.	
UNRESOLVED	STAFF	COMMENTS
None.
ITEM	2.	
PROPERTIES
We	are	headquartered	in	Austin,	Texas.	Our	principal	facilities	include	a	large	number	of	properties	in	North	America,	Europe	and	Asia	utilized
	
for	manufacturing	and	assembly,	warehousing,	engineering,	retail	and	service	locations,	Supercharger	sites	and	administrative	and	sales	offices.	Our
	
facilities	are	used	to	support	both	of	our	reporting	segments,	and	are	suitable	and	adequate	for	the	conduct	of	our	business.	We	primarily	lease	such
	
facilities	with	the	exception	of	some	manufacturing	facilities.	The	following	table	sets	forth	the	location	of	our	primary	owned	and	leased	manufacturing
	
facilities.
	
Primary	Manufacturing	Facilities
	
Location
	
Owned	or	Leased
Gigafactory	Texas
	
Austin,	Texas
	
Owned
Fremont	Factory
	
Fremont,	California
	
Owned
Gigafactory	Nevada
	
Sparks,	Nevada
	
Owned
Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg
	
Grunheide,	Germany
	
Owned
Gigafactory	Shanghai
	
Shanghai,	China
	
*
Gigafactory	New	York
	
Buffalo,	New	York
	
Leased
Megafactory
	
Lathrop,	California
	
Leased
	
*
	
We	own	the	building	and	the	land	use	rights	with	an	initial	term	of	50	years.	The	land	use	rights	are	treated	as	operating	lease	right-of-use
	
assets.
ITEM	3.	
LEGAL	PROCEEDINGS
For	a	description	of	our	material	pending	legal	proceedings,	please	see	Note	15,
	Commitments	and	Contingencies
,	to	the	consolidated	financial
	
statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
In	addition,	each	of	the	matters	below	is	being	disclosed	pursuant	to	Item	103	of	Regulation	S-K	because	it	relates	to	environmental	regulations
	
and	aggregate	civil	penalties	that	we	currently	believe	could	potentially	exceed	$1	million.	We	believe	that	any	proceeding	that	is	material	to	our
	
business	or	financial	condition	is	likely	to	have	potential	penalties	far	in	excess	of	such	amount.
The	German	Umweltbundesamt	issued	our	subsidiary	in	Germany	a	notice	and	fine	in	the	amount	of	12	million	euro	alleging	its	non-compliance
	
under	applicable	laws	relating	to	market	participation	notifications	and	take-back	obligations	with	respect	to	end-of-life	battery	products	required
	
thereunder.	In	response	to	Tesla’s	objection,	the	German	Umweltbundesamt	issued	Tesla	a	revised	fine	notice	dated	April	29,	2021	in	which	it	reduced
	
the	original	fine	amount	to	1.45	million	euro.	This	is	primarily	relating	to	administrative	requirements,	but	Tesla	has	continued	to	take	back	battery
	
packs,	and	filed	a	new	objection	in	June	2021.	A	hearing	took	place	on	November	24,	2022,	and	the	parties	reached	a	settlement	which	resulted	in	a
	
further	reduction	of	the	fine	to	600,000	euro.	Both	parties	have	waived	their	right	to	appeal.
	
District	attorneys	in	certain	California	counties	are	conducting	an	investigation	into	Tesla’s	waste	segregation	practices	pursuant	to	Cal.	Health
	
&	Saf.	Code	section	25100	et	seq.	and	Cal.	Civil	Code	§	1798.80.	Tesla	has	implemented	various	remedial	measures,	including	conducting	training	and
	
audits,	and	enhancements	to	its	site	waste	management	programs.	While	the	outcome	of	this	matter	cannot	be	determined	at	this	time,	it	is	not
	
currently	expected	to	have	a	material	adverse	impact	on	our	business.
ITEM	4.	
MINE	SAFETY	DISCLOSURES
Not	applicable.
29	
PART	II
ITEM	5.	
MARKET	FOR	REGISTRANT’S	COMMON	EQUITY,	RELATED	STOCKHOLDER	MATTERS	AND	ISSUER	PURCHASES	OF	EQUITY
	
SECURITIES
Market	Information
Our	common	stock	has	traded	on	The	NASDAQ	Global	Select	Market	under	the	symbol	“TSLA”	since	it	began	trading	on	June	29,	2010.	Our
	
initial	public	offering	was	priced	at	approximately	$1.13	per	share	on	June	28,	2010	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split	and	the	five-for-
one	stock	split	effected	in	the	form	of	a	stock	dividend	in	August	2020	(the	“2020	Stock	Split”).
Holders
As	of	January	25,	2023,	there	were	8,686	holders	of	record	of	our	common	stock.	A	substantially	greater	number	of	holders	of	our	common	stock
	
are	“street	name”	or	beneficial	holders,	whose	shares	are	held	by	banks,	brokers	and	other	financial	institutions.
Dividend	Policy
We	have	never	declared	or	paid	cash	dividends	on	our	common	stock.	We	currently	do	not	anticipate	paying	any	cash	dividends	in	the
	
foreseeable	future.	Any	future	determination	to	declare	cash	dividends	will	be	made	at	the	discretion	of	our	board	of	directors,	subject	to	applicable
	
laws,	and	will	depend	on	our	financial	condition,	results	of	operations,	capital	requirements,	general	business	conditions	and	other	factors	that	our
	
board	of	directors	may	deem	relevant.
Stock	Performance	Graph
This	performance	graph	shall	not	be	deemed	“filed”	for	purposes	of	Section	18	of	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934,	as	amended	(the
	
“Exchange	Act”),	or	incorporated	by	reference	into	any	filing	of	Tesla,	Inc.	under	the	Securities	Act	of	1933,	as	amended	(the	“Securities	Act”),	or	the
	
Exchange	Act,	except	as	shall	be	expressly	set	forth	by	specific	reference	in	such	filing.
The	following	graph	shows	a	comparison,	from	January	1,	2018	through	December	31,	2022,	of	the	cumulative	total	return	on	our	common	stock,
	
The	NASDAQ	Composite	Index	and	a	group	of	all	public	companies	sharing	the	same	SIC	code	as	us,	which	is	SIC	code	3711,	“Motor	Vehicles	and
	
Passenger	Car	Bodies”	(Motor	Vehicles	and	Passenger	Car	Bodies	Public	Company	Group).	Such	returns	are	based	on	historical	results	and	are	not
	
intended	to	suggest	future	performance.	Data	for	The	NASDAQ	Composite	Index	and	the	Motor	Vehicles	and	Passenger	Car	Bodies	Public	Company
	
Group	assumes	an	investment	of	$100	on	January	1,	2018	and	reinvestment	of	dividends.	We	have	never	declared	or	paid	cash	dividends	on	our
	
common	stock	nor	do	we	anticipate	paying	any	such	cash	dividends	in	the	foreseeable	future.
	
	
	
	
30	
Unregistered	Sales	of	Equity	Securities	and	Use	of	Proceeds
None
Purchases	of	Equity	Securities	by	the	Issuer	and	Affiliated	Purchasers
None.
ITEM	6.	
[
RESERVED]
31	
ITEM	7.	
MANAGEMENT’S	DISCUSSION	AND	ANALYSIS	OF	FINANCIAL	CONDITION	AND	RESULTS	OF	OPERATIONS
The	following	discussion	and	analysis	should	be	read	in	conjunction	with	the	consolidated	financial	statements	and	the	related	notes	included
	
elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.	For	further	discussion	of	our	products	and	services,	technology	and	competitive	strengths,	refer	to	Item
	
1-	Business.	For	discussion	related	to	changes	in	financial	condition	and	the	results	of	operations	for	fiscal	year	2021-related	items,	refer	to	Part	II,	Item
	
7.	Management’s	Discussion	and	Analysis	of	Financial	Condition	and	Results	of	Operations	in	our	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	for	fiscal	year	2021,
	
which	was	filed	with	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	on	February	7,	2022.
Overview	and	2022	Highlights
Our	mission	is	to	accelerate	the	world’s	transition	to	sustainable	energy.	We	design,	develop,	manufacture,	lease	and	sell	high-performance	fully
	
electric	vehicles,	solar	energy	generation	systems	and	energy	storage	products.	We	also	offer	maintenance,	installation,	operation,	financial	and	other
	
services	related	to	our	products.	Additionally,	we	are	increasingly	focused	on	products	and	services	based	on	artificial	intelligence,	robotics	and
	
automation.
In	2022,	we	produced	1,369,611	consumer	vehicles	and	delivered	1,313,851	consumer	vehicles,	despite	ongoing	supply	chain	and	logistics
	
challenges	and	factory	shutdowns.	We	are	currently	focused	on	increasing	vehicle	production,	capacity	and	delivery	capabilities,	improving	and
	
developing	battery	technologies,	improving	our	FSD	capabilities,	increasing	the	affordability	and	efficiency	of	our	vehicles,	bringing	new	products	to
	
market	and	expanding	our	global	infrastructure.
In	2022,	we	deployed	6.5	GWh	of	energy	storage	products	and	348	megawatts	of	solar	energy	systems.	We	are	currently	focused	on	ramping
	
production	of	energy	storage	products,	improving	our	Solar	Roof	installation	capability	and	efficiency,	and	increasing	market	share	of	retrofit	and	new
	
build	solar	energy	systems.
In	2022,	we	recognized	total	revenues	of	$81.46	billion,	respectively,	representing	an	increase	of	$27.64	billion,	compared	to	the	prior	year.	We
	
continue	to	ramp	production,	build	new	manufacturing	capacity	and	expand	our	operations	to	enable	increased	deliveries	and	deployments	of	our
	
products	and	further	revenue	growth.
In	2022,	our	net	income	attributable	to	common	stockholders	was	$12.56	billion,	representing	a	favorable	change	of	$7.04	billion,	compared	to
	
the	prior	year.	We	continue	to	focus	on	improving	our	profitability	through	production	and	operational	efficiencies.
We	ended	2022	with	$22.19	billion	in	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	investments,	representing	an	increase	of	$4.48	billion	from	the	end	of	2021.
	
Our	cash	flows	provided	by	operating	activities	during	2022	and	2021	were	$14.72	billion	and	$11.50	billion,	respectively,	representing	an	increase	of
	
$3.23	billion.	Capital	expenditures	amounted	to	$7.16	billion	during	2022,	compared	to	$6.48	billion	during	2021.	Sustained	growth	has	allowed	our
	
business	to	generally	fund	itself,	and	we	will	continue	investing	in	a	number	of	capital-intensive	projects	in	upcoming	periods.
Management	Opportunities,	Challenges	and	Uncertainties	and	2023	Outlook
Automotive—Production
	
The	following	is	a	summary	of	the	status	of	production	of	each	of	our	announced	vehicle	models	in	production	and	under	development,	as	of	the
	
date	of	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K:
	
Production	Location
		
Vehicle	Model(s)
		
Production	Status
Fremont	Factory
		
Model	S	/	Model	X
		
Active
		
		
Model	3	/	Model	Y
		
Active
Gigafactory	Shanghai
		
Model	3	/	Model	Y
		
Active
Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg
		
Model	Y
		
Active
Gigafactory	Texas
		
Model	Y
		
Active
		
		
Cybertruck
		
Tooling
	
Gigafactory	Nevada
		
Tesla	Semi
		
Pilot	production
TBD
		
Tesla	Roadster
		
In	development
TBD
	
Robotaxi	&	Others
	
In	development
	
	
32	
We	are	focused	on	growing	our	manufacturing	capacity,	which	includes	ramping	all	of	our	production	vehicles	to	their	installed	production
	
capacities	as	well	as	increasing	production	rate,	efficiency	and	capacity	at	our	current	factories.	The	next	phase	of	production	growth	will	depend	on
	
the	ramp	at	Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg	and	Gigafactory	Texas,	as	well	as	our	ability	to	add	to	our	available	sources	of	battery	cell	supply	by
	
manufacturing	our	own	cells	that	we	are	developing	to	have	high-volume	output,	lower	capital	and	production	costs	and	longer	range.	Our	goals	are	to
	
improve	vehicle	performance,	decrease	production	costs	and	increase	affordability.
	
However,	these	plans	are	subject	to	uncertainties	inherent	in	establishing	and	ramping	manufacturing	operations,	which	may	be	exacerbated	by
	
the	new	product	and	manufacturing	technologies	we	are	introducing,	the	number	of	concurrent	international	projects,	any	industry-wide	component
	
constraints,	labor	shortages	and	any	future	impact	from	events	outside	of	our	control	such	as	the	COVID-19	pandemic.	Moreover,	we	have	set	ambitious
	
technological	targets	with	our	plans	for	battery	cells	as	well	as	for	iterative	manufacturing	and	design	improvements	for	our	vehicles	with	each	new
	
factory.
Automotive—Demand	and	Sales
Our	cost	reduction	efforts,	cost	innovation	strategies,	and	additional	localized	procurement	and	manufacturing	are	key	to	our	vehicles’
	
affordability,	and	for	example,	have	allowed	us	to	competitively	price	our	vehicles	in	China.	We	will	also	continue	to	generate	demand	and	brand
	
awareness	by	improving	our	vehicles’	performance	and	functionality,	including	through	products	based	on	artificial	intelligence	such	as	Autopilot	and
	
FSD,	and	other	software	features,	and	delivering	new	vehicles,	such	as	the	Tesla	Semi	in	December	2022.	Moreover,	we	expect	to	continue	to	benefit
	
from	ongoing	electrification	of	the	automotive	sector	and	increasing	environmental	awareness.
	
However,	we	operate	in	a	cyclical	industry	that	is	sensitive	to	political	and	regulatory	uncertainty,	including	with	respect	to	trade	and	the
	
environment,	all	of	which	can	be	compounded	by	inflationary	pressures,	rising	energy	prices,	increases	in	interest	rates	and	any	future	global	impact
	
from	the	COVID-19	pandemic.	For	example,	in	the	earlier	part	of	2022,	the	automotive	industry	in	general	experienced	part	shortages	and	supplier
	
disruptions	which	impacted	production	leading	to	a	general	increase	in	vehicle	pricing.	As	the	year	progressed,	inflationary	pressures	increased	across
	
the	markets	in	which	we	operate.	In	an	effort	to	curb	this	trend,	central	banks	in	developed	countries	raised	interest	rates	rapidly	and	substantially,
	
impacting	the	affordability	of	vehicle	lease	and	finance	arrangements.	Further,	sales	of	vehicles	in	the	automotive	industry	also	tend	to	be	cyclical	in
	
many	markets,	which	may	expose	us	to	increased	volatility	as	we	expand	and	adjust	our	operations.	Moreover,	as	additional	competitors	enter	the
	
marketplace	and	help	bring	the	world	closer	to	sustainable	transportation,	we	will	have	to	adjust	and	continue	to	execute	well	to	maintain	our
	
momentum.	These	macroeconomic	and	industry	trends	have	had,	and	will	likely	continue	to	have,	an	impact	on	the	pricing	of,	and	order	rate	for	our
	
vehicles,	and	we	will	continue	to	adjust	accordingly	to	such	developments.
Automotive—Deliveries	and	Customer	Infrastructure
	
As	our	production	increases,	we	must	work	constantly	to	similarly	increase	vehicle	delivery	capability	so	that	it	does	not	become	a	bottleneck	on
	
our	total	deliveries.	Beginning	the	second	half	of	2022,	due	to	continuing	challenges	caused	by	vehicle	transportation	capacity	during	peak	delivery
	
periods,	we	began	transitioning	to	a	more	even	regional	mix	of	vehicle	builds	each	week,	which	led	to	an	increase	in	cars	in	transit	at	the	end	of	the
	
year.	Increasing	the	exports	of	vehicles	manufactured	at	Gigafactory	Shanghai	has	also	been	effective	in	mitigating	the	strain	on	our	deliveries	in
	
markets	outside	of	the	United	States,	and	we	expect	to	benefit	further	from	situating	additional	factories	closer	to	local	markets,	including	the
	
production	launch	at	Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg	and	Gigafactory	Austin.	As	we	expand	our	manufacturing	operations	globally,	we	will	also	have	to
	
continue	to	increase	and	staff	our	delivery,	servicing	and	charging	infrastructure	accordingly,	maintain	our	vehicle	reliability	and	optimize	our
	
Supercharger	locations	to	ensure	cost	effectiveness	and	customer	satisfaction.	In	particular,	we	remain	focused	on	increasing	the	capability	and
	
efficiency	of	our	servicing	operations.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage	Demand,	Production	and	Deployment
	
The	long-term	success	of	this	business	is	dependent	upon	increasing	margins	through	greater	volumes.	We	continue	to	increase	the	production
	
of	our	energy	storage	products	to	meet	high	levels	of	demand.	For	Megapack,	energy	storage	deployments	can	vary	meaningfully	quarter	to	quarter
	
depending	on	the	timing	of	specific	project	milestones.	For	Powerwall,	better	availability	and	growing	grid	stability	concerns	drive	higher	customer
	
interest.	We	remain	committed	to	growing	our	retrofit	solar	energy	business	by	offering	a	low-cost	and	simplified	online	ordering	experience.	In
	
addition,	we	continue	to	seek	to	improve	our	installation	capabilities	and	price	efficiencies	for	Solar	Roof.	As	these	product	lines	grow,	we	will	have	to
	
maintain	adequate	battery	cell	supply	for	our	energy	storage	products	and	hire	additional	personnel,	particularly	skilled	electricians,	to	support	the
	
ramp	of	Solar	Roof.
	
33	
Cash	Flow	and	Capital	Expenditure	Trends
	
Our	capital	expenditures	are	typically	difficult	to	project	beyond	the	short-term	given	the	number	and	breadth	of	our	core	projects	at	any	given
	
time,	and	may	further	be	impacted	by	uncertainties	in	future	global	market	conditions.	We	are	simultaneously	ramping	new	products,	ramping
	
manufacturing	facilities	on	three	continents	and	piloting	the	development	and	manufacture	of	new	battery	cell	technologies,	and	the	pace	of	our	capital
	
spend	may	vary	depending	on	overall	priority	among	projects,	the	pace	at	which	we	meet	milestones,	production	adjustments	to	and	among	our	various
	
products,	increased	capital	efficiencies	and	the	addition	of	new	projects.	Owing	and	subject	to	the	foregoing	as	well	as	the	pipeline	of	announced
	
projects	under	development,	all	other	continuing	infrastructure	growth	and	varying	levels	of	inflation,	we	currently	expect	our	capital	expenditures	to
	
be	between	$6.00	to	$8.00	billion	in	2023	and	between	$7.00	to	$9.00	billion	in	each	of	the	following	two	fiscal	years.
Our	business	has	recently	been	consistently	generating	cash	flow	from	operations	in	excess	of	our	level	of	capital	spend,	and	with	better	working
	
capital	management	resulting	in	shorter	days	sales	outstanding	than	days	payable	outstanding,	our	sales	growth	is	also	facilitating	positive	cash
	
generation.	We	have	and	will	continue	to	utilize	such	cash	flows,	among	other	things,	to	do	more	vertical	integration,	expand	our	product	roadmap	and
	
provide	financing	options	to	our	customers.	On	the	other	hand,	we	are	likely	to	see	heightened	levels	of	capital	expenditures	during	certain	periods
	
depending	on	the	specific	pace	of	our	capital-intensive	projects	and	rising	material	prices	and	increasing	supply	chain	and	labor	expenses	resulting
	
from	changes	in	global	trade	conditions	and	labor	availability	associated	with	the	COVID-19	pandemic.	Overall,	we	expect	our	ability	to	be	self-funding
	
to	continue	as	long	as	macroeconomic	factors	support	current	trends	in	our	sales.
Operating	Expense	Trends
	
As	long	as	we	see	expanding	sales,	and	excluding	the	potential	impact	of	macroeconomic	conditions	including	increased	labor	costs	and
	
impairment	charges	on	certain	assets	as	explained	below,	we	generally	expect	operating	expenses	relative	to	revenues	to	decrease	as	we	continue	to
	
increase	operational	efficiency	and	process	automation.	We	expect	operating	expenses	to	continue	to	grow	in	2023	as	we	are	expanding	our	operations
	
globally.
In	the	first	quarter	of	2021,	we	invested	an	aggregate	$1.50	billion	in	bitcoin.	As	with	any	investment	and	consistent	with	how	we	manage	fiat-
based	cash	and	cash-equivalent	accounts,	we	may	increase	or	decrease	our	holdings	of	digital	assets	at	any	time	based	on	the	needs	of	the	business	and
	
our	view	of	market	and	environmental	conditions.	Digital	assets	are	considered	indefinite-lived	intangible	assets	under	applicable	accounting	rules.
	
Accordingly,	any	decrease	in	their	fair	values	below	our	carrying	values	for	such	assets	at	any	time	subsequent	to	their	acquisition	will	require	us	to
	
recognize	impairment	charges,	whereas	we	may	make	no	upward	revisions	for	any	market	price	increases	until	a	sale.	For	any	digital	assets	held	now
	
or	in	the	future,	these	charges	may	negatively	impact	our	profitability	in	the	periods	in	which	such	impairments	occur	even	if	the	overall	market	values
	
of	these	assets	increase.	For	example,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	we	recorded	$204	million	of	impairment	losses	resulting	from	changes	to
	
the	carrying	value	of	our	bitcoin	and	gains	of	$64	million	on	certain	conversions	of	bitcoin	into	fiat	currency	by	us.
Critical	Accounting	Policies	and	Estimates
The	consolidated	financial	statements	are	prepared	in	accordance	with	accounting	principles	generally	accepted	in	the	U.S.	(“GAAP”).	The
	
preparation	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements	requires	us	to	make	estimates	and	assumptions	that	affect	the	reported	amounts	of	assets,
	
liabilities,	revenues,	costs	and	expenses	and	related	disclosures.	We	base	our	estimates	on	historical	experience,	as	appropriate,	and	on	various	other
	
assumptions	that	we	believe	to	be	reasonable	under	the	circumstances.	Changes	in	the	accounting	estimates	are	reasonably	likely	to	occur	from	period
	
to	period.	Accordingly,	actual	results	could	differ	significantly	from	the	estimates	made	by	our	management.	We	evaluate	our	estimates	and
	
assumptions	on	an	ongoing	basis.	To	the	extent	that	there	are	material	differences	between	these	estimates	and	actual	results,	our	future	financial
	
statement	presentation,	financial	condition,	results	of	operations	and	cash	flows	may	be	affected.
The	estimates	used	for,	but	not	limited	to,	determining	significant	economic	incentive	for	resale	value	guarantee	arrangements,	sales	return
	
reserves,	the	collectability	of	accounts	and	financing	receivables,	inventory	valuation,	warranties,	fair	value	of	long-lived	assets,	goodwill,	fair	value	of
	
financial	instruments,	fair	value	and	residual	value	of	operating	lease	vehicles	and	solar	energy	systems	subject	to	leases	could	be	impacted.	We	have
	
assessed	the	impact	and	are	not	aware	of	any	specific	events	or	circumstances	that	required	an	update	to	our	estimates	and	assumptions	or	materially
	
affected	the	carrying	value	of	our	assets	or	liabilities	as	of	the	date	of	issuance	of	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.	These	estimates	may	change	as	new
	
events	occur	and	additional	information	is	obtained.	Actual	results	could	differ	materially	from	these	estimates	under	different	assumptions	or
	
conditions.
34	
Revenue	Recognition
Automotive	Sales
Automotive	sales	revenue	includes	revenues	related	to	cash	and	financing	deliveries	of	new	vehicles,	and	specific	other	features	and	services
	
that	meet	the	definition	of	a	performance	obligation	under	Accounting	Standards	Codification	(“ASC”)	606,	
Revenue	from	Contracts	with	Customers
	
(“ASC	606”),	including	access	to	our	FSD	features,	internet	connectivity,	Supercharger	network	and	over-the-air	software	updates.	We	recognize
	
revenue	on	automotive	sales	upon	delivery	to	the	customer,	which	is	when	the	control	of	a	vehicle	transfers.	Payments	are	typically	received	at	the	point
	
control	transfers	or	in	accordance	with	payment	terms	customary	to	the	business,	except	sales	we	finance	for	which	payments	are	collected	over	the
	
contractual	loan	term.	We	also	recognize	a	sales	return	reserve	based	on	historical	experience	plus	consideration	for	expected	future	market	values,
	
when	we	offer	resale	value	guarantees	or	similar	buyback	terms.	Other	features	and	services	such	as	access	to	our	internet	connectivity,	legacy
	
programs	offering	unlimited	free	Supercharging	and	over-the-air	software	updates	are	provisioned	upon	control	transfer	of	a	vehicle	and	recognized
	
over	time	on	a	straight-line	basis	as	we	have	a	stand-ready	obligation	to	deliver	such	services	to	the	customer.	Other	limited	free	Supercharging
	
incentives	are	recognized	based	on	actual	usage	or	expiration,	whichever	is	earlier.	We	recognize	revenue	related	to	these	other	features	and	services
	
over	the	performance	period,	which	is	generally	the	expected	ownership	life	of	the	vehicle.	Revenue	related	to	FSD	is	recognized	when	functionality	is
	
delivered	to	the	customer	and	the	portion	related	to	software	updates	is	recognized	over	time.	For	our	obligations	related	to	automotive	sales,	we
	
estimate	standalone	selling	price	by	considering	costs	used	to	develop	and	deliver	the	service,	third-party	pricing	of	similar	options	and	other
	
information	that	may	be	available.
Any	fees	that	are	paid	or	payable	by	us	to	a	customer’s	lender	when	we	arrange	the	financing	are	recognized	as	an	offset	against	automotive
	
sales	revenue.	Costs	to	obtain	a	contract	mainly	relate	to	commissions	paid	to	our	sales	personnel	for	the	sale	of	vehicles.	As	our	contract	costs	related
	
to	automotive	sales	are	typically	fulfilled	within	one	year,	the	costs	to	obtain	a	contract	are	expensed	as	incurred.	Amounts	billed	to	customers	related
	
to	shipping	and	handling	are	classified	as	automotive	sales	revenue,	and	we	have	elected	to	recognize	the	cost	for	freight	and	shipping	when	control
	
over	vehicles,	parts	or	accessories	have	transferred	to	the	customer	as	an	expense	in	cost	of	automotive	sales	revenue.	Our	policy	is	to	exclude	taxes
	
collected	from	a	customer	from	the	transaction	price	of	automotive	contracts.
We	offer	resale	value	guarantees	or	similar	buy-back	terms	to	certain	international	customers	who	purchase	vehicles	and	who	finance	their
	
vehicles	through	one	of	our	specified	commercial	banking	partners.	Under	these	programs,	we	receive	full	payment	for	the	vehicle	sales	price	at	the
	
time	of	delivery	and	our	counterparty	has	the	option	of	selling	their	vehicle	back	to	us	during	the	guarantee	period,	which	currently	is	generally	at	the
	
end	of	the	term	of	the	applicable	loan	or	financing	program,	for	a	pre-determined	resale	value.	We	account	for	such	automotive	sales	as	a	sale	with	a
	
right	of	return	when	we	do	not	believe	the	customer	has	a	significant	economic	incentive	to	exercise	the	resale	value	guarantee	provided	to	them	at
	
contract	inception.	The	process	to	determine	whether	there	is	a	significant	economic	incentive	includes	a	comparison	of	a	vehicle’s	estimated	market
	
value	at	the	time	the	option	is	exercisable	with	the	guaranteed	resale	value	to	determine	the	customer’s	economic	incentive	to	exercise.	On	a	quarterly
	
basis,	we	assess	the	estimated	market	values	of	vehicles	sold	with	resale	value	guarantees	to	determine	whether	there	have	been	changes	to	the
	
likelihood	of	future	product	returns.	As	we	accumulate	more	data	related	to	the	resale	values	of	our	vehicles	or	as	market	conditions	change,	there	may
	
be	material	changes	to	their	estimated	values.
Inventory	Valuation
Inventories	are	stated	at	the	lower	of	cost	or	net	realizable	value.	Cost	is	computed	using	standard	cost	for	vehicles	and	energy	products,	which
	
approximates	actual	cost	on	a	first-in,	first-out	basis.	We	record	inventory	write-downs	for	excess	or	obsolete	inventories	based	upon	assumptions	about
	
current	and	future	demand	forecasts.	If	our	inventory	on-hand	is	in	excess	of	our	future	demand	forecast,	the	excess	amounts	are	written-off.
We	also	review	our	inventory	to	determine	whether	its	carrying	value	exceeds	the	net	amount	realizable	upon	the	ultimate	sale	of	the	inventory.
	
This	requires	us	to	determine	the	estimated	selling	price	of	our	vehicles	less	the	estimated	cost	to	convert	the	inventory	on-hand	into	a	finished	product.
	
Once	inventory	is	written-down,	a	new,	lower	cost	basis	for	that	inventory	is	established	and	subsequent	changes	in	facts	and	circumstances	do	not
	
result	in	the	restoration	or	increase	in	that	newly	established	cost	basis.
Should	our	estimates	of	future	selling	prices	or	production	costs	change,	additional	and	potentially	material	write-downs	may	be	required.	A
	
small	change	in	our	estimates	may	result	in	a	material	charge	to	our	reported	financial	results.
35	
Warranties
We	provide	a	manufacturer’s	warranty	on	all	new	and	used	vehicles	and	a	warranty	on	the	installation	and	components	of	the	energy	generation
	
and	storage	systems	we	sell	for	periods	typically	between	10	to	25	years.	We	accrue	a	warranty	reserve	for	the	products	sold	by	us,	which	includes	our
	
best	estimate	of	the	projected	costs	to	repair	or	replace	items	under	warranties	and	recalls	if	identified.	These	estimates	are	based	on	actual	claims
	
incurred	to	date	and	an	estimate	of	the	nature,	frequency	and	costs	of	future	claims.	These	estimates	are	inherently	uncertain	given	our	relatively	short
	
history	of	sales,	and	changes	to	our	historical	or	projected	warranty	experience	may	cause	material	changes	to	the	warranty	reserve	in	the	future.	The
	
warranty	reserve	does	not	include	projected	warranty	costs	associated	with	our	vehicles	subject	to	operating	lease	accounting	and	our	solar	energy
	
systems	under	lease	contracts	or	PPAs,	as	the	costs	to	repair	these	warranty	claims	are	expensed	as	incurred.	The	portion	of	the	warranty	reserve
	
expected	to	be	incurred	within	the	next	12	months	is	included	within	Accrued	liabilities	and	other,	while	the	remaining	balance	is	included	within	Other
	
long-term	liabilities	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets.	Warranty	expense	is	recorded	as	a	component	of	Cost	of	revenues	in	the	consolidated
	
statements	of	operations.	Due	to	the	magnitude	of	our	automotive	business,	accrued	warranty	balance	is	primarily	related	to	our	automotive	segment.
Stock-Based	Compensation
We	use	the	fair	value	method	of	accounting	for	our	stock	options	and	restricted	stock	units	(“RSUs”)	granted	to	employees	and	for	our	employee
	
stock	purchase	plan	(the	“ESPP”)	to	measure	the	cost	of	employee	services	received	in	exchange	for	the	stock-based	awards.	The	fair	value	of	stock
	
option	awards	with	only	service	and/or	performance	conditions	is	estimated	on	the	grant	or	offering	date	using	the	Black-Scholes	option-pricing	model.
	
The	Black-Scholes	option-pricing	model	requires	inputs	such	as	the	risk-free	interest	rate,	expected	term	and	expected	volatility.	These	inputs	are
	
subjective	and	generally	require	significant	judgment.	The	fair	value	of	RSUs	is	measured	on	the	grant	date	based	on	the	closing	fair	market	value	of
	
our	common	stock.	The	resulting	cost	is	recognized	over	the	period	during	which	an	employee	is	required	to	provide	service	in	exchange	for	the	awards,
	
usually	the	vesting	period,	which	is	generally	four	years	for	stock	options	and	RSUs	and	six	months	for	the	ESPP.	Stock-based	compensation	expense	is
	
recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis,	net	of	actual	forfeitures	in	the	period.
For	performance-based	awards,	stock-based	compensation	expense	is	recognized	over	the	expected	performance	achievement	period	of
	
individual	performance	milestones	when	the	achievement	of	each	individual	performance	milestone	becomes	probable.
	
As	we	accumulate	additional	employee	stock-based	awards	data	over	time	and	as	we	incorporate	market	data	related	to	our	common	stock,	we
	
may	calculate	significantly	different	volatilities	and	expected	lives,	which	could	materially	impact	the	valuation	of	our	stock-based	awards	and	the	stock-
based	compensation	expense	that	we	will	recognize	in	future	periods.	Stock-based	compensation	expense	is	recorded	in	Cost	of	revenues,	Research	and
	
development	expense	and	Selling,	general	and	administrative	expense	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	operations.
Income	Taxes
We	are	subject	to	taxes	in	the	U.S.	and	in	many	foreign	jurisdictions.	Significant	judgment	is	required	in	determining	our	provision	for	income
	
taxes,	our	deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	and	any	valuation	allowance	recorded	against	our	net	deferred	tax	assets.	We	make	these	estimates	and
	
judgments	about	our	future	taxable	income	that	are	based	on	assumptions	that	are	consistent	with	our	future	plans.	Tax	laws,	regulations	and
	
administrative	practices	may	be	subject	to	change	due	to	economic	or	political	conditions	including	fundamental	changes	to	the	tax	laws	applicable	to
	
corporate	multinationals.	The	U.S.,	many	countries	in	the	European	Union	and	a	number	of	other	countries	are	actively	considering	changes	in	this
	
regard.	As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	had	recorded	a	full	valuation	allowance	on	our	net	U.S.	deferred	tax	assets	because	we	expect	that	it	is	more	likely
	
than	not	that	our	U.S.	deferred	tax	assets	will	not	be	realized.	Should	the	actual	amounts	differ	from	our	estimates,	the	amount	of	our	valuation
	
allowance	could	be	materially	impacted.
Furthermore,	significant	judgment	is	required	in	evaluating	our	tax	positions.	In	the	ordinary	course	of	business,	there	are	many	transactions
	
and	calculations	for	which	the	ultimate	tax	settlement	is	uncertain.	As	a	result,	we	recognize	the	effect	of	this	uncertainty	on	our	tax	attributes	or	taxes
	
payable	based	on	our	estimates	of	the	eventual	outcome.	These	effects	are	recognized	when,	despite	our	belief	that	our	tax	return	positions	are
	
supportable,	we	believe	that	it	is	more	likely	than	not	that	some	of	those	positions	may	not	be	fully	sustained	upon	review	by	tax	authorities.	We	are
	
required	to	file	income	tax	returns	in	the	U.S.	and	various	foreign	jurisdictions,	which	requires	us	to	interpret	the	applicable	tax	laws	and	regulations	in
	
effect	in	such	jurisdictions.	Such	returns	are	subject	to	audit	by	the	various	federal,	state	and	foreign	taxing	authorities,	who	may	disagree	with	respect
	
to	our	tax	positions.	We	believe	that	our	consideration	is	adequate	for	all	open	audit	years	based	on	our	assessment	of	many	factors,	including	past
	
experience	and	interpretations	of	tax	law.	We	review	and	update	our	estimates	in	light	of	changing	facts	and	circumstances,	such	as	the	closing	of	a	tax
	
audit,	the	lapse	of	a	statute	of	limitations	or	a	change	in	estimate.	To	the	extent	that	the	final	tax	outcome	of	these	matters	differs	from	our
	
expectations,	such	differences	may	impact	income	tax	expense	in	the	period	in	which	such	determination	is	made.	The	eventual	impact	on	our	income
	
tax	expense	depends	in	part	if	we	still	have	a	valuation	allowance	recorded	against	our	deferred	tax	assets	in	the	period	that	such	determination	is
	
made.
36	
Results	of	Operations
	
Revenues
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Automotive	sales
	
$
67,210
	
	
$
44,125
	
	
$
24,604
	
	
$
23,085
	
	
	
52
%
	
$
19,521
	
	
	
79
%
Automotive	regulatory	credits
	
	
1,776
	
	
	
1,465
	
	
	
1,580
	
	
	
311
	
	
	
21
%
	
	
(115
)
	
	
(7
)%
Automotive	leasing
	
	
2,476
	
	
	
1,642
	
	
	
1,052
	
	
	
834
	
	
	
51
%
	
	
590
	
	
	
56
%
Total	automotive	revenues
	
	
71,462
	
	
	
47,232
	
	
	
27,236
	
	
	
24,230
	
	
	
51
%
	
	
19,996
	
	
	
73
%
Services	and	other
	
	
6,091
	
	
	
3,802
	
	
	
2,306
	
	
	
2,289
	
	
	
60
%
	
	
1,496
	
	
	
65
%
Total	automotive	&	services	and	other
			segment	revenue
	
	
77,553
	
	
	
51,034
	
	
	
29,542
	
	
	
26,519
	
	
	
52
%
	
	
21,492
	
	
	
73
%
Energy	generation	and	storage	segment	revenue
	
	
3,909
	
	
	
2,789
	
	
	
1,994
	
	
	
1,120
	
	
	
40
%
	
	
795
	
	
	
40
%
Total	revenues
	
$
81,462
	
	
$
53,823
	
	
$
31,536
	
	
$
27,639
	
	
	
51
%
	
$
22,287
	
	
	
71
%
	
Automotive	&	Services	and	Other	Segment
Automotive	sales	revenue	includes	revenues	related	to	cash	and	financing	deliveries	of	new	Model	S,	Model	X,	Semi,	Model	3,	and	Model	Y
	
vehicles,	including	access	to	our	FSD	features,	internet	connectivity,	free	Supercharging	programs	and	over-the-air	software	updates.	These	deliveries
	
are	vehicles	that	are	not	subject	to	lease	accounting.
	
Automotive	regulatory	credits	includes	sales	of	regulatory	credits	to	other	automotive	manufacturers.	Our	revenue	from	automotive	regulatory
	
credits	is	directly	related	to	our	new	vehicle	production,	sales	and	pricing	negotiated	with	our	customers.	We	monetize	them	proactively	as	new	vehicles
	
are	sold	based	on	standing	arrangements	with	buyers	of	such	credits,	typically	as	close	as	possible	to	the	production	and	delivery	of	the	vehicle	or
	
changes	in	regulation	impacting	the	credits.
	
Automotive	leasing	revenue	includes	the	amortization	of	revenue	for	vehicles	under	direct	operating	lease	agreements.	Additionally,	automotive
	
leasing	revenue	includes	direct	sales-type	leasing	programs	where	we	recognize	all	revenue	associated	with	the	sales-type	lease	upon	delivery	to	the
	
customer.
Services	and	other	revenue	consists	of	non-warranty	after-sales	vehicle	services	and	parts,	paid	Supercharging,	sales	of	used	vehicles,	retail
	
merchandise	and	vehicle	insurance	revenue.
2022	compared	to	2021
Automotive	sales	revenue	increased	$23.09	billion,	or	52%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,
	
2021,	primarily	due	to	an	increase	of	347,024	Model	3	and	Model	Y	deliveries,	and	an	increase	of	38,183	Model	S	and	Model	X	deliveries	year	over
	
year.	This	was	achieved	from	production	ramping	of	Model	Y	at	Gigafactory	Shanghai	and	the	Fremont	Factory	as	well	as	the	start	of	production	at
	
Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg	and	Gigafactory	Texas	in	2022,	at	a	higher	combined	average	selling	price	from	a	higher	proportion	of	Model	Y	sales
	
despite	a	negative	impact	from	the	United	States	dollar	strengthening	against	other	foreign	currencies	in	2022	compared	to	the	prior	period.	There	was
	
also	an	increase	in	production	of	Model	S	and	Model	X	and	an	increase	in	the	combined	average	selling	price	of	Model	S	and	Model	X	with	a	higher
	
proportion	of	Model	X	sales,	compared	to	the	prior	period	as	deliveries	of	the	new	versions	of	Model	S	and	Model	X	began	ramping	in	the	second	and
	
fourth	quarters	of	2021,	respectively.	Further,	during	the	fourth	quarter	of	2022,	we	recognized	$324	million	in	revenue	related	to	the	general	FSD
	
feature	release	in	North	America.
	
Automotive	regulatory	credits	revenue	increased	$311	million,	or	21%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021,	primarily	due	to	changes	in	regulation	which	entitled	us	to	additional	consideration	of	$288	million	in	revenue	in	the	first	quarter	of
	
2022	for	credits	sold	previously,	in	the	absence	of	which	we	had	only	an	immaterial	increase	in	automotive	regulatory	credits	revenue.
Automotive	leasing	revenue	increased	$834	million,	or	51%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,
	
2021.	The	change	is	primarily	due	to	an	increase	in	activities	under	our	direct	operating	lease	program	as	well	as	an	increase	in	direct	sales-type
	
leasing	revenue.
Services	and	other	revenue	increased	$2.29	billion,	or	60%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,
	
2021.	The	change	is	primarily	due	to	increase	in	used	vehicle	revenue	driven	by	increases	in	volume	and	average	selling	prices	of	used	Tesla	and	non-
Tesla	vehicles,	non-warranty	maintenance	services	revenue	as	our	fleet	continues	to	grow,	paid	Supercharging	revenue,	insurance	services	revenue	and
	
retail	merchandise	revenue.
37	
Energy	Generation	and	Storage	Segment
Energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	includes	sales	and	leasing	of	solar	energy	generation	and	energy	storage	products,	financing	of	solar
	
energy	generation	products,	services	related	to	such	products	and	sales	of	solar	energy	systems	incentives.
2022	compared	to	2021
Energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	increased	$1.12	billion,	or	40%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021,	primarily	due	to	an	increase	in	energy	storage	deployments	of	Megapack,	Powerwall	and	higher	average	selling	price	of	Megapack,
	
as	well	as	on	solar	cash	and	loan	deployments	driven	by	price	increases	in	2022.
Cost	of	Revenues	and	Gross	Margin
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Cost	of	revenues
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Automotive	sales
	
$
49,599
	
	
$
32,415
	
	
$
19,696
	
	
$
17,184
	
	
	
53
%
	
$
12,719
	
	
	
65
%
Automotive	leasing
	
	
1,509
	
	
	
978
	
	
	
563
	
	
	
531
	
	
	
54
%
	
	
415
	
	
	
74
%
Total	automotive	cost	of	revenues
	
	
51,108
	
	
	
33,393
	
	
	
20,259
	
	
	
17,715
	
	
	
53
%
	
	
13,134
	
	
	
65
%
Services	and	other
	
	
5,880
	
	
	
3,906
	
	
	
2,671
	
	
	
1,974
	
	
	
51
%
	
	
1,235
	
	
	
46
%
Total	automotive	&	services	and	other	
			segment	cost	of	revenues
	
	
56,988
	
	
	
37,299
	
	
	
22,930
	
	
	
19,689
	
	
	
53
%
	
	
14,369
	
	
	
63
%
Energy	generation	and	storage	segment
	
	
3,621
	
	
	
2,918
	
	
	
1,976
	
	
	
703
	
	
	
24
%
	
	
942
	
	
	
48
%
Total	cost	of	revenues
	
$
60,609
	
	
$
40,217
	
	
$
24,906
	
	
$
20,392
	
	
	
51
%
	
$
15,311
	
	
	
61
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Gross	profit	total	automotive
	
$
20,354
	
	
$
13,839
	
	
$
6,977
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Gross	margin	total	automotive
	
	
28.5
%
	
	
29.3
%
	
	
25.6
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Gross	profit	total	automotive	&	services	and	other
			segment
	
$
20,565
	
	
$
13,735
	
	
$
6,612
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Gross	margin	total	automotive	&	services	and	other
			segment
	
	
26.5
%
	
	
26.9
%
	
	
22.4
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Gross	profit	energy	generation	and	storage	segment
	
$
288
	
	
$
(129
)
	
$
18
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Gross	margin	energy	generation	and	storage	segment
	
	
7.4
%
	
	
(4.6
)%
	
	
0.9
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Total	gross	profit
	
$
20,853
	
	
$
13,606
	
	
$
6,630
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Total	gross	margin
	
	
25.6
%
	
	
25.3
%
	
	
21.0
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Automotive	&	Services	and	Other	Segment
Cost	of	automotive	sales	revenue	includes	direct	and	indirect	materials,	labor	costs,	manufacturing	overhead,	including	depreciation	costs	of
	
tooling	and	machinery,	shipping	and	logistic	costs,	vehicle	connectivity	costs,	allocations	of	electricity	and	infrastructure	costs	related	to	our	free
	
Supercharging	programs	and	reserves	for	estimated	warranty	expenses.	Cost	of	automotive	sales	revenues	also	includes	adjustments	to	warranty
	
expense	and	charges	to	write	down	the	carrying	value	of	our	inventory	when	it	exceeds	its	estimated	net	realizable	value	and	to	provide	for	obsolete
	
and	on-hand	inventory	in	excess	of	forecasted	demand.
Cost	of	automotive	leasing	revenue	includes	the	depreciation	of	operating	lease	vehicles,	cost	of	goods	sold	associated	with	direct	sales-type
	
leases	and	warranty	expense	related	to	leased	vehicles.	Cost	of	automotive	leasing	revenue	also	includes	vehicle	connectivity	costs	and	allocations	of
	
electricity	and	infrastructure	costs	related	to	our	Supercharger	network	for	vehicles	under	our	leasing	programs.
Cost	of	services	and	other	revenue	includes	costs	associated	with	providing	non-warranty	after-sales	services	and	parts,	costs	of	paid
	
Supercharging,	cost	of	used	vehicles	including	refurbishment	costs,	costs	for	retail	merchandise,	and	costs	to	provide	vehicle	insurance.
38	
2022	compared	to	2021
Cost	of	automotive	sales	revenue	increased	$17.18	billion,	or	53%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021,	in	line	with	the	growth	in	revenue	year	over	year,	as	discussed	above.	The	average	combined	cost	per	unit	of	Model	3	and	Model	Y
	
increased	year	over	year	due	to	rising	raw	material,	logistics	and	warranty	costs.	There	were	also	idle	capacity	charges	of	$306	million	primarily	related
	
to	the	temporary	suspension	of	production	at	Gigafactory	Shanghai	as	well	as	the	ramping	up	of	production	in	Gigafactory	Texas	and	our	proprietary
	
battery	cells	manufacturing	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022.	We	had	also	incurred	costs	related	to	the	ramp	up	of	production	in	Gigafactory
	
Berlin-Brandenburg	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022.	These	increases	were	partially	offset	by	a	decrease	in	combined	average	Model	S	and
	
Model	X	costs	per	unit	driven	by	lower	average	cost	for	the	new	versions	from	ramping	up	production.	Further,	these	increases	in	costs	of	revenue	were
	
positively	impacted	by	the	United	States	dollar	strengthening	against	other	foreign	currencies	in	2022	compared	to	the	prior	period.
Cost	of	automotive	leasing	revenue	increased	$531	million,	or	54%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021,	primarily	due	to	an	increase	in	cumulative	vehicles	under	our	direct	operating	lease	program	and	an	increase	in	direct	sales-type
	
leasing	cost	of	revenues	from	more	activities	in	the	current	year.
Cost	of	services	and	other	revenue	increased	$1.97	billion,	or	51%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021.	The	change	is	primarily	due	to	an	increase	in	used	vehicle	cost	of	revenue	driven	by	increases	in	volume	and	costs	of	used	Tesla
	
and	non-Tesla	vehicle	sales,	an	increase	in	non-warranty	maintenance	service	revenue,	and	an	increase	in	costs	of	paid	Supercharging,	insurance
	
services	and	retail	merchandise.
Gross	margin	for	total	automotive	decreased	from	29.3%	to	28.5%	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021.	This	was	driven	by	the	changes	in	automotive	sales	revenue	and	cost	of	automotive	sales	revenue,	partially	offset	by	an	increase	in
	
regulatory	credits	revenue,	as	discussed	earlier.
Gross	margin	for	total	automotive	&	services	and	other	segment	decreased	from	26.9%	to	26.5%	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as
	
compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021,	primarily	due	to	the	automotive	gross	margin	decrease	discussed	above,	partially	offset	by	an
	
improvement	in	our	services	and	other	gross	margin.	Additionally,	services	and	other	was	a	higher	percentage	of	the	segment	gross	margin	during	the
	
year	ended	2022	as	compared	to	the	prior	year.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage	Segment
Cost	of	energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	includes	direct	and	indirect	material	and	labor	costs,	warehouse	rent,	freight,	warranty	expense,
	
other	overhead	costs	and	amortization	of	certain	acquired	intangible	assets.	Cost	of	energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	also	includes	charges	to
	
write	down	the	carrying	value	of	our	inventory	when	it	exceeds	its	estimated	net	realizable	value	and	to	provide	for	obsolete	and	on-hand	inventory	in
	
excess	of	forecasted	demand.	In	agreements	for	solar	energy	system	and	PPAs	where	we	are	the	lessor,	the	cost	of	revenue	is	primarily	comprised	of
	
depreciation	of	the	cost	of	leased	solar	energy	systems,	maintenance	costs	associated	with	those	systems	and	amortization	of	any	initial	direct	costs.
2022	compared	to	2021
Cost	of	energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	increased	$703	million,	or	24%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year
	
ended	December	31,	2021,	primarily	due	to	increases	in	energy	storage	deployments	of	Megapack	and	Powerwall,	as	well	as	higher	average	cost	of
	
solar	cash	and	loan	deployments	due	to	increased	component	costs.
Gross	margin	for	energy	generation	and	storage	increased	from	-4.6%	to	7.4%	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year
	
ended	December	31,	2021.	This	was	driven	by	the	growth	in	energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	and	cost	of	energy	generation	and	storage	revenue
	
as	discussed	above.	Additionally,	there	was	a	higher	proportion	of	energy	storage	sales,	which	operated	at	a	higher	gross	margin,	within	the	segment.
39	
Research	and	Development	Expense
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Research	and	development
	
$
3,075
	
	
$
2,593
	
	
$
1,491
	
	
$
482
	
	
	
19
%
	
$
1,102
	
	
	
74
%
As	a	percentage	of	revenues
	
	
4
%
	
	
5
%
	
	
5
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Research	and	development	(“R&D”)	expenses	consist	primarily	of	personnel	costs	for	our	teams	in	engineering	and	research,	manufacturing
	
engineering	and	manufacturing	test	organizations,	prototyping	expense,	contract	and	professional	services	and	amortized	equipment	expense.
R&D	expenses	increased	$482	million,	or	19%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	The
	
increase	was	primarily	due	to	a	$175	million	increase	in	employee	and	labor	related	expenses,	a	$132	million	increase	in	facilities,	outside	services,
	
freight	and	depreciation	expense,	a	$101	million	increase	in	R&D	expensed	materials	and	an	$87	million	increase	in	stock-based	compensation	expense.
	
These	increases	were	to	support	our	expanding	product	roadmap	and	technologies	including	our	proprietary	battery	cells.	Further,	there	were
	
additional	R&D	expenses	in	the	first	quarter	of	2022	as	we	were	in	the	pre-production	phase	at	Gigafactory	Texas	and	started	production	at	Gigafactory
	
Berlin-Brandenburg	only	closer	to	the	end	of	the	first	quarter	of	2022.
R&D	expenses	as	a	percentage	of	revenue	decreased	from	5%	to	4%	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021.	Our	R&D	expenses	have	decreased	as	a	proportion	of	total	revenues	despite	expanding	product	roadmap	and	technologies.
Selling,	General	and	Administrative	Expense
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Selling,	general	and	administrative
	
$
3,946
	
	
$
4,517
	
	
$
3,145
	
	
$
(571
)
	
	
(13
)%
	
$
1,372
	
	
	
44
%
As	a	percentage	of	revenues
	
	
5
%
	
	
8
%
	
	
10
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Selling,	general	and	administrative	(“SG&A”)	expenses	generally	consist	of	personnel	and	facilities	costs	related	to	our	stores,	marketing,	sales,
	
executive,	finance,	human	resources,	information	technology	and	legal	organizations,	as	well	as	fees	for	professional	and	contract	services	and	litigation
	
settlements.
SG&A	expenses	decreased	$571	million,	or	13%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	This
	
is	primarily	due	to	a	decrease	of	$822	million	in	stock-based	compensation	expense,	most	of	which	is	attributable	to	the	lower	stock-based
	
compensation	expense	of	$844	million	on	the	2018	CEO	Performance	Award.	This	was	partially	offset	by	the	overall	growth	in	stock-based
	
compensation	due	to	increased	headcount.	See	Note	13,	
Equity	Incentive	Plans
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this
	
Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.	There	was	also	a	decrease	of	$87	million	in	overall	employee	and	labor	related	expenses	driven	by	a	decrease	of	$340
	
million	of	additional	payroll	tax	due	to	our	CEO's	option	exercises	from	the	2012	CEO	Performance	Award	in	2021,	partially	offset	by	an	increase	in
	
other	employee	and	labor	costs	from	increased	headcount.	These	decreases	were	partially	offset	by	an	increase	of	$222	million	in	facilities-related
	
expenses,	and	an	increase	of	$117	million	in	professional	services,	sales	and	marketing	activities	and	other	costs.
SG&A	expenses	as	a	percentage	of	revenue	decreased	from	8%	to	5%	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021.	Our	SG&A	expenses	have	decreased	as	a	proportion	of	total	revenues	due	to	the	decrease	in	expenses	as	discussed	above,	in
	
addition	to	operational	efficiencies.
Restructuring	and	Other	Expense
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
$
	
	
%
Restructuring	and	other
	
$
176
	
	
$
(27
)
	
$
—
	
	
$
203
	
	
Not
	
meaningful
	
$
(27
)
	
Not
	
meaningful
	
During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	recorded	$204	million	and	$101	million,	respectively,	of	impairment	losses	on	digital
	
assets,	respectively.	During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	also	realized	gains	of	$64	million	and	$128	million,	respectively,	in
	
connection	with	converting	our	holdings	of	digital	assets	into	fiat	currency.	See	Note	3,	
Digital	Assets,	Net
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements
	
included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	for	further	details.	Additionally,	we	recorded	other	expenses	of	$36	million	during	the	second
	
quarter	of	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	related	to	employee	terminations.
40	
Interest	Income
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Interest	income
	
$
297
	
	
$
56
	
	
$
30
	
	
$
241
	
	
	
430
%
	
$
26
	
	
	
87
%
	
Interest	income	increased	$241	million,	or	430%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	This
	
increase	was	primarily	due	to	higher	interest	earned	on	our	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	short-term	investments	during	the	year	ended	2022
	
compared	to	the	prior	period.	This	was	driven	by	an	increase	in	our	average	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	short-term	investments	balance	and	rising
	
interest	rates.
Interest	Expense
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Interest	expense
	
$
(191
)
	
$
(371
)
	
$
(748
)
	
$
180
	
	
	
(49
)%
	
$
377
	
	
	
(50
)%
	
Interest	expense	decreased	$180	million,	or	49%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	This
	
decrease	was	primarily	due	to	the	continued	reduction	in	our	overall	debt	balance	offset	by	lower	capitalized	interest.	See	Note	11,	
Debt
,	to	the
	
consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	for	further	details.
Other	(Expense)	Income,	Net
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
$
	
	
%
Other	(expense)	income,	net
	
$
(43
)
	
$
135
	
	
$
(122
)
	
$
(178
)
	
Not
	
meaningful
	
$
257
	
	
Not
	
meaningful
	
Other	(expense)	income,	net,	consists	primarily	of	foreign	exchange	gains	and	losses	related	to	our	foreign	currency-denominated	monetary
	
assets	and	liabilities.	We	expect	our	foreign	exchange	gains	and	losses	will	vary	depending	upon	movements	in	the	underlying	exchange	rates.
Other	(expense)	income,	net,	changed	unfavorably	by	$178	million	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021.	The	change	is	primarily	due	to	fluctuations	in	foreign	currency	exchange	rates.
Provision	for	Income	Taxes
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Provision	for	income	taxes
	
$
1,132
	
	
$
699
	
	
$
292
	
	
$
433
	
	
	
62
%
	
$
407
	
	
	
139
%
Effective	tax	rate
	
	
8
%
	
	
11
%
	
	
25
%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Our	provision	for	income	taxes	increased	by	$433	million,	or	62%,	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021,	primarily	due	to	the	increase	in	our	pre-tax	income	year	over	year.
Our	effective	tax	rate	decreased	from	11%	to	8%	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021,
	
primarily	due	to	changes	in	mix	of	jurisdictional	earnings.
See	Note	14,	
Income	Taxes
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	for	further	details.
Net	Income	Attributable	to	Noncontrolling	Interests	and	Redeemable	Noncontrolling	Interests
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
2022	vs.	2021	Change
	
	
2021	vs.	2020	Change
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
	
$
	
	
%
	
Net	income	attributable	to	noncontrolling	
			interests	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	
			in	subsidiaries
	
$
31
	
	
$
125
	
	
$
141
	
	
$
(94
)
	
	
(75
)%
	
$
(16
)
	
	
(11
)%
	
41	
Net	income	attributable	to	noncontrolling	interests	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	decreased	by	$94	million,	or	75%,	in	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	These	changes	were	due	to	a	decrease	in	allocations	to	financing	fund
	
investors.
Liquidity	and	Capital	Resources
We	expect	to	continue	to	generate	net	positive	operating	cash	flow	as	we	have	done	in	the	last	four	fiscal	years.	The	cash	we	generate	from	our
	
core	operations	enables	us	to	fund	ongoing	operations	and	production,	our	research	and	development	projects	for	new	products	and	technologies
	
including	our	proprietary	battery	cells,	additional	manufacturing	ramps	at	existing	manufacturing	facilities	such	as	the	Fremont	Factory,	Gigafactory
	
Nevada,	Gigafactory	Shanghai	and	Gigafactory	New	York,	the	ramp	of	Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg	and	Gigafactory	Texas	and	the	continued
	
expansion	of	our	retail	and	service	locations,	body	shops,	Mobile	Service	fleet,	Supercharger	network	and	energy	product	installation	capabilities.
	
In	addition,	because	a	large	portion	of	our	future	expenditures	will	be	to	fund	our	growth,	we	expect	that	if	needed	we	will	be	able	to	adjust	our
	
capital	and	operating	expenditures	by	operating	segment.	For	example,	if	our	near-term	manufacturing	operations	decrease	in	scale	or	ramp	more
	
slowly	than	expected,	including	due	to	global	economic	or	business	conditions,	we	may	choose	to	correspondingly	slow	the	pace	of	our	capital
	
expenditures.	Finally,	we	continually	evaluate	our	cash	needs	and	may	decide	it	is	best	to	raise	additional	capital	or	seek	alternative	financing	sources
	
to	fund	the	rapid	growth	of	our	business,	including	through	drawdowns	on	existing	or	new	debt	facilities	or	financing	funds.	Conversely,	we	may	also
	
from	time	to	time	determine	that	it	is	in	our	best	interests	to	voluntarily	repay	certain	indebtedness	early.
Accordingly,	we	believe	that	our	current	sources	of	funds	will	provide	us	with	adequate	liquidity	during	the	12-month	period	following	December
	
31,	2022,	as	well	as	in	the	long-term.
	
See	the	sections	below	for	more	details	regarding	the	material	requirements	for	cash	in	our	business	and	our	sources	of	liquidity	to	meet	such
	
needs.
Material	Cash	Requirements
From	time	to	time	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business,	we	enter	into	agreements	with	vendors	for	the	purchase	of	components	and	raw	materials
	
to	be	used	in	the	manufacture	of	our	products.	However,	due	to	contractual	terms,	variability	in	the	precise	growth	curves	of	our	development	and
	
production	ramps,	and	opportunities	to	renegotiate	pricing,	we	generally	do	not	have	binding	and	enforceable	purchase	orders	under	such	contracts
	
beyond	the	short-term,	and	the	timing	and	magnitude	of	purchase	orders	beyond	such	period	is	difficult	to	accurately	project.
As	discussed	in	and	subject	to	the	considerations	referenced	in	Part	II,	Item	7,	
Management's	Discussion	and	Analysis	of	Financial	Condition	and
	
Results	of	Operations—Management	Opportunities,	Challenges	and	Risks	and	2023	Outlook—Cash	Flow	and	Capital	Expenditure	Trends
	in	this	Annual
	
Report	on	Form	10-K,	we	currently	expect	our	capital	expenditures	to	support	our	projects	globally	to	be	between	$6.00	to	$8.00	billion	in	2023	and
	
between	$7.00	to	$9.00	billion	in	each	of	the	following	two	fiscal	years.	In	connection	with	our	operations	at	Gigafactory	New	York,	we	have	an
	
agreement	to	spend	or	incur	$5.00	billion	in	combined	capital,	operational	expenses,	costs	of	goods	sold	and	other	costs	in	the	State	of	New	York
	
through	December	31,	2029	(pursuant	to	a	deferral	of	our	required	timelines	to	meet	such	obligations	that	was	granted	in	April	2021,	and	which	was
	
memorialized	in	an	amendment	to	our	agreement	with	the	SUNY	Foundation	in	August	2021).	We	also	have	an	operating	lease	arrangement	with	the
	
local	government	of	Shanghai	pursuant	to	which	we	are	required	to	spend	RMB	14.08	billion	in	capital	expenditures	at	Gigafactory	Shanghai	by	the	end
	
of	2023.	For	details	regarding	these	obligations,	refer	to	Note	15,	
Commitments	and	Contingencies
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included
	
elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	and	our	subsidiaries	had	outstanding	$2.06	billion	in	aggregate	principal	amount	of	indebtedness,	of	which	$1.02
	
billion	is	scheduled	to	become	due	in	the	succeeding	12	months.	As	of	December	31,	2022,	our	total	minimum	lease	payments	was	$4.28	billion,	of
	
which	$1.14	billion	is	due	in	the	succeeding	12	months.	For	details	regarding	our	indebtedness	and	lease	obligations,	refer	to	Note	11,	
Debt
,	and	Note
	
12,	
Leases
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
Sources	and	Conditions	of	Liquidity
Our	sources	to	fund	our	material	cash	requirements	are	predominantly	from	our	deliveries	and	servicing	of	new	and	used	vehicles,	sales	and
	
installations	of	our	energy	storage	products	and	solar	energy	systems,	proceeds	from	debt	facilities	and	proceeds	from	equity	offerings,	when
	
applicable.
	
42	
As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	had	$16.25	billion	and	$5.93	billion	of	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	short-term	investments,	respectively.
	
Balances	held	in	foreign	currencies	had	a	U.S.	dollar	equivalent	of	$3.42	billion	and	consisted	primarily	of	Chinese	yuan,	euros	and	British	pounds.	In
	
addition,	we	had	$2.42	billion	of	unused	committed	amounts	under	our	credit	facilities	as	of	December	31,	2022,	which	included	$2.27	billion	under	our
	
Credit	Agreement	which	was	terminated	in	January	2023.	Certain	of	such	unused	committed	amounts	are	subject	to	satisfying	specified	conditions	prior
	
to	draw-down	(such	as	pledging	to	our	lenders	sufficient	amounts	of	qualified	receivables,	inventories,	leased	vehicles	and	our	interests	in	those	leases,
	
solar	energy	systems	and	the	associated	customer	contracts	or	various	other	assets).	In	January	2023,	we	entered	into	an	unsecured	revolving	credit
	
facility	providing	for	a	commitment	of	up	to	$5.0	billion.	For	details	regarding	our	indebtedness,	refer	to	Note	11
,	Debt
,	to	the	consolidated	financial
	
statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
We	continue	adapting	our	strategy	to	meet	our	liquidity	and	risk	objectives,	such	as	investing	in	U.S.	government	and	other	investments,	to	do
	
more	vertical	integration,	expand	our	product	roadmap	and	provide	financing	options	to	our	customers.
Summary	of	Cash	Flows
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
(Dollars	in	millions)
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Net	cash	provided	by	operating	activities
	
$
14,724
	
	
$
11,497
	
	
$
5,943
	
Net	cash	used	in	investing	activities
	
$
(11,973
)
	
$
(7,868
)
	
$
(3,132
)
Net	cash	(used	in)	provided	by	financing	activities
	
$
(3,527
)
	
$
(5,203
)
	
$
9,973
	
	
Cash	Flows	from	Operating	Activities
Our	cash	flows	from	operating	activities	are	significantly	affected	by	our	cash	investments	to	support	the	growth	of	our	business	in	areas	such	as
	
research	and	development	and	selling,	general	and	administrative	and	working	capital.	Our	operating	cash	inflows	include	cash	from	vehicle	sales	and
	
related	servicing,	customer	lease	and	financing	payments,	customer	deposits,	cash	from	sales	of	regulatory	credits	and	energy	generation	and	storage
	
products.	These	cash	inflows	are	offset	by	our	payments	to	suppliers	for	production	materials	and	parts	used	in	our	manufacturing	process,	operating
	
expenses,	operating	lease	payments	and	interest	payments	on	our	financings.
Net	cash	provided	by	operating	activities	increased	by	$3.23	billion	to	$14.72	billion	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	from	$11.50
	
billion	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	This	increase	was	primarily	due	to	the	increase	in	net	income	excluding	non-cash	expenses,	gains	and
	
losses	of	$7.65	billion,	offset	by	the	overall	increase	in	net	operating	assets	and	liabilities	of	$4.43	billion.
	
The	increase	in	our	net	operating	assets	and
	
liabilities	was	mainly	driven	by	a	larger	increase	of	inventory	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	as	compared	to	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021,
	
partially	offset	by	a	larger	increase	of	accounts	payable	and	accrued	liabilities,	to	support	the	ramp	up	in	production	at	our	factories	and	larger
	
increases	in	other	non-current	assets	and	prepaid	expenses	and	other	current	assets.	Additionally,	the	increase	in	our	net	operating	assets	and	other
	
liabilities	was	partially	offset	by	a	larger	increase	in	other	long-term	liabilities	as	compared	to	the	prior	year.
Cash	Flows	from	Investing	Activities
Cash	flows	from	investing	activities	and	their	variability	across	each	period	related	primarily	to	capital	expenditures,	which	were	$7.16	billion	for
	
the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	and	$6.48	billion	for	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021,	mainly	for	the	expansions	of	Gigafactory	Texas,	the
	
Fremont	Factory,	Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg,	and	Gigafactory	Shanghai.	We	also	purchased	$5.84	billion	of	investments	in	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2022.	Additionally,	cash	inflows	related	to	sales	of	digital	assets	were	$936	million	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	and	net	cash
	
outflows	related	to	digital	assets	were	$1.23	billion	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021	from	purchases	of	digital	assets	for	$1.50	billion	offset	by
	
proceeds	from	sales	of	digital	assets	of	$272	million.
Cash	Flows	from	Financing	Activities
Net	cash	used	in	financing	activities	decreased	by	$1.68	billion	to	$3.53	billion	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	from	$5.20	billion
	
during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	The	decrease	was	primarily	due	to	a	$1.92	billion	decrease	in	repayments	of	convertible	and	other	debt,	net
	
of	proceeds	from	issuances	of	debt.	See	Note	11,	
Debt
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K
	
for	further	details	regarding	our	debt	obligations.
Recent	Accounting	Pronouncements
See	Note	2,	
Summary	of	Significant	Accounting	Policies
,	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	elsewhere	in	this	Annual	Report	on
	
Form	10-K.
	
43	
ITEM	7A.	
QUANTITATIVE	AND	QUALITATIVE	DISCLOSURES	ABOUT	MARKET	RISK
Foreign	Currency	Risk
We	transact	business	globally	in	multiple	currencies	and	hence	have	foreign	currency	risks	related	to	our	revenue,	costs	of	revenue,	operating
	
expenses	and	localized	subsidiary	debt	denominated	in	currencies	other	than	the	U.S.	dollar	(primarily	the	Chinese	yuan,	euro,	pound	sterling	and
	
Norwegian	krone	in	relation	to	our	current	year	operations).	In	general,	we	are	a	net	receiver	of	currencies	other	than	the	U.S.	dollar	for	our	foreign
	
subsidiaries.	Accordingly,	changes	in	exchange	rates	affect	our	revenue	and	other	operating	results	as	expressed	in	U.S.	dollars	as	we	do	not	typically
	
hedge	foreign	currency	risk.
	
We	have	also	experienced,	and	will	continue	to	experience,	fluctuations	in	our	net	income	as	a	result	of	gains	(losses)	on	the	settlement	and	the
	
re-measurement	of	monetary	assets	and	liabilities	denominated	in	currencies	that	are	not	the	local	currency	(primarily	consisting	of	our	intercompany
	
and	cash	and	cash	equivalents	balances).
We	considered	the	historical	trends	in	foreign	currency	exchange	rates	and	determined	that	it	is	reasonably	possible	that	adverse	changes	in
	
foreign	currency	exchange	rates	of	10%	for	all	currencies	could	be	experienced	in	the	near-term.	These	changes	were	applied	to	our	total	monetary
	
assets	and	liabilities	denominated	in	currencies	other	than	our	local	currencies	at	the	balance	sheet	date	to	compute	the	impact	these	changes	would
	
have	had	on	our	net	income	before	income	taxes.	These	changes	would	have	resulted	in	a	gain	or	loss	of	$473	million	at	December	31,	2022	and	$277
	
million	at	December	31,	2021,	assuming	no	foreign	currency	hedging.
	
44	
ITEM	8.		
FINANCIAL	STATEMENTS	AND	SUPPLEMENTARY	DATA
	
Index	to	Consolidated	Financial	Statements
		
		
		
	
Page
Report	of	Independent	Registered	Public	Accounting	Firm
	(PCAOB	ID:	
238
)
		
	
46
Consolidated	Balance	Sheets
		
	
48
Consolidated	Statements	of	Operations
		
	
49
Consolidated	Statements	of	Comprehensive	Income
		
	
50
Consolidated	Statements	of	Redeemable	Noncontrolling	Interests	and	Equity
		
	
51
Consolidated	Statements	of	Cash	Flows
		
	
52
Notes	to	Consolidated	Financial	Statements
		
	
53
	
	
45	
Report	of	Independent	Registered	Public	Accounting	Firm
	
To	the
	
Board	of	Directors	and	Stockholders	of	Tesla,	Inc.
	
Opinions	on	the	Financial	Statements	and	Internal	Control	over	Financial	Reporting
	
We	have	audited	the	accompanying	consolidated	balance	sheets	of	Tesla,	Inc.	and	its	subsidiaries	(the	“Company”)	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,
	
and	the	related	consolidated	statements	of	operations,	of	comprehensive	income,	of	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	and	equity	and	of	cash	flows
	
for	each	of	the	three	years	in	the	period	ended	December	31,	2022,	including	the	related	notes	(collectively	referred	to	as	the	“consolidated	financial
	
statements”).	We	also	have	audited	the	Company's	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	as	of	December	31,	2022,	based	on	criteria	established	in
	
Internal	Control	-	Integrated	Framework	(2013)	issued	by	the	Committee	of	Sponsoring	Organizations	of	the	Treadway	Commission	(COSO).
	
In	our	opinion,	the	consolidated	financial	statements	referred	to	above	present	fairly,	in	all	material	respects,	the	financial	position	of	the	Company	as	of
	
December	31,	2022	and	2021,	and	the	results	of	its	operations	and	its	cash	flows	for	each	of	the	three	years	in	the	period	ended	December	31,	2022	in
	
conformity	with	accounting	principles	generally	accepted	in	the	United	States	of	America.	Also	in	our	opinion,	the	Company	maintained,	in	all	material
	
respects,	effective	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	as	of	December	31,	2022,	based	on	criteria	established	in	Internal	Control	-	Integrated
	
Framework	(2013)	issued	by	the	COSO.
	
Changes	in	Accounting	Principles
	
As	discussed	in	Note	2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements,	the	Company	changed	the	manner	in	which	it	accounts	for	convertible	debt	in	2021.
	
Basis	for	Opinions
	
The	Company's	management	is	responsible	for	these	consolidated	financial	statements,	for	maintaining	effective	internal	control	over	financial
	
reporting,	and	for	its	assessment	of	the	effectiveness	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	included	in	Management’s	Report	on	Internal	Control
	
over	Financial	Reporting	appearing	under	Item	9A.	Our	responsibility	is	to	express	opinions	on	the	Company’s	consolidated	financial	statements	and	on
	
the	Company's	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	based	on	our	audits.	We	are	a	public	accounting	firm	registered	with	the	Public	Company
	
Accounting	Oversight	Board	(United	States)	(PCAOB)	and	are	required	to	be	independent	with	respect	to	the	Company	in	accordance	with	the	U.S.
	
federal	securities	laws	and	the	applicable	rules	and	regulations	of	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	and	the	PCAOB.
	
We	conducted	our	audits	in	accordance	with	the	standards	of	the	PCAOB.	Those	standards	require	that	we	plan	and	perform	the	audits	to	obtain
	
reasonable	assurance	about	whether	the	consolidated	financial	statements	are	free	of	material	misstatement,	whether	due	to	error	or	fraud,	and
	
whether	effective	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	was	maintained	in	all	material	respects.
	
Our	audits	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements	included	performing	procedures	to	assess	the	risks	of	material	misstatement	of	the	consolidated
	
financial	statements,	whether	due	to	error	or	fraud,	and	performing	procedures	that	respond	to	those	risks.	Such	procedures	included	examining,	on	a
	
test	basis,	evidence	regarding	the	amounts	and	disclosures	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	Our	audits	also	included	evaluating	the	accounting
	
principles	used	and	significant	estimates	made	by	management,	as	well	as	evaluating	the	overall	presentation	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements.
	
Our	audit	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	included	obtaining	an	understanding	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	assessing	the	risk
	
that	a	material	weakness	exists,	and	testing	and	evaluating	the	design	and	operating	effectiveness	of	internal	control	based	on	the	assessed	risk.	Our
	
audits	also	included	performing	such	other	procedures	as	we	considered	necessary	in	the	circumstances.	We	believe	that	our	audits	provide	a
	
reasonable	basis	for	our	opinions.
	
Definition	and	Limitations	of	Internal	Control	over	Financial	Reporting
	
A	company’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	is	a	process	designed	to	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding	the	reliability	of	financial
	
reporting	and	the	preparation	of	financial	statements	for	external	purposes	in	accordance	with	generally	accepted	accounting	principles.	A	company’s
	
internal	control	over	financial	reporting	includes	those	policies	and	procedures	that	(i)	pertain	to	the	maintenance	of	records	that,	in	reasonable	detail,
	
accurately	and	fairly	reflect	the	transactions	and	dispositions	of	the	assets	of	the	company;	(ii)	provide	reasonable	assurance	that	transactions	are
	
recorded	as	necessary	to	permit	preparation	of	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	generally	accepted	accounting	principles,	and	that	receipts	and
	
expenditures	of	the	company	are	being	made	only	in	accordance	with	authorizations	of	management	and	directors	of	the	company;	and	(iii)	provide
	
reasonable	assurance	regarding	prevention	or	timely	detection	of	unauthorized	acquisition,	use,	or	disposition	of	the	company’s	assets	that	could	have	a
	
material	effect	on	the	financial	statements.
	
46	
Because	of	its	inherent	limitations,	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	may	not	prevent	or	detect	misstatements.	Also,	projections	of	any	evaluation
	
of	effectiveness	to	future	periods	are	subject	to	the	risk	that	controls	may	become	inadequate	because	of	changes	in	conditions,	or	that	the	degree	of
	
compliance	with	the	policies	or	procedures	may	deteriorate.
	
Critical	Audit	Matters
	
The	critical	audit	matter	communicated	below	is	a	matter	arising	from	the	current	period	audit	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements	that	was
	
communicated	or	required	to	be	communicated	to	the	audit	committee	and	that	(i)	relates	to	accounts	or	disclosures	that	are	material	to	the
	
consolidated	financial	statements	and	(ii)	involved	our	especially	challenging,	subjective,	or	complex	judgments.	The	communication	of	critical	audit
	
matters	does	not	alter	in	any	way	our	opinion	on	the	consolidated	financial	statements,	taken	as	a	whole,	and	we	are	not,	by	communicating	the	critical
	
audit	matter	below,	providing	a	separate	opinion	on	the	critical	audit	matter	or	on	the	accounts	or	disclosures	to	which	it	relates.
	
Automotive	Warranty	Reserve
	
As	described	in	Note	2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements,	total	accrued	warranty,	which	primarily	relates	to	the	automotive	segment,	was	$3,505
	
million	as	of	December	31,	2022.	The	Company	provides	a	manufacturer’s	warranty	on	all	new	and	used	Tesla	vehicles.	A	warranty	reserve	is	accrued
	
for	these	products	sold,	which	includes	management’s	best	estimate	of	the	projected	costs	to	repair	or	replace	items	under	warranty	and	recalls	if
	
identified.	These	estimates	are	based	on	actual	claims	incurred	to	date	and	an	estimate	of	the	nature,	frequency	and	costs	of	future	claims.
	
The	principal	considerations	for	our	determination	that	performing	procedures	relating	to	the	automotive	warranty	reserve	is	a	critical	audit	matter	are
	
the	significant	judgment	by	management	in	determining	the	automotive	warranty	reserve	for	certain	Tesla	vehicle	models;	this	in	turn	led	to	significant
	
auditor	judgment,	subjectivity,	and	effort	in	performing	procedures	to	evaluate	management’s	significant	assumptions	related	to	the	nature,	frequency
	
and	costs	of	future	claims	for	certain	Tesla	vehicle	models,	and	the	audit	effort	involved	the	use	of	professionals	with	specialized	skill	and	knowledge.
	
Addressing	the	matter	involved	performing	procedures	and	evaluating	audit	evidence	in	connection	with	forming	our	overall	opinion	on	the	consolidated
	
financial	statements.	These	procedures	included	testing	the	effectiveness	of	controls	relating	to	management’s	estimate	of	the	automotive	warranty
	
reserve	for	certain	Tesla	vehicle	models,	including	controls	over	management’s	significant	assumptions	related	to	the	nature,	frequency	and	costs	of
	
future	claims	as	well	as	the	completeness	and	accuracy	of	actual	claims	incurred	to	date.	These	procedures	also	included,	among	others,	performing
	
one	of	the	following:	(i)	testing	management’s	process	for	determining	the	automotive	warranty	reserve	for	certain	Tesla	vehicle	models	or	(ii)
	
developing	an	independent	estimate	of	the	automotive	warranty	reserve	for	certain	Tesla	vehicle	models	and	comparing	the	independent	estimate	to
	
management’s	estimate	to	evaluate	the	reasonableness	of	the	estimate.	Testing	management’s	process	involved	evaluating	the	reasonableness	of
	
significant	assumptions	related	to	the	nature	and	frequency	of	future	claims	and	the	related	costs	to	repair	or	replace	items	under	warranty.	Evaluating
	
the	assumptions	related	to	the	nature	and	frequency	of	future	claims	and	the	related	costs	to	repair	or	replace	items	under	warranty	involved
	
evaluating	whether	the	assumptions	used	were	reasonable	by	performing	a	lookback	analysis	comparing	prior	period	forecasted	claims	to	actual	claims
	
incurred.	Developing	the	independent	estimate	involved	testing	the	completeness	and	accuracy	of	historical	vehicle	claims	processed	and	testing	that
	
such	claims	were	appropriately	used	by	management	in	the	estimation	of	future	claims.	Professionals	with	specialized	skill	and	knowledge	were	used	to
	
assist	in	developing	an	independent	estimate	of	the	automotive	warranty	reserve	for	certain	Tesla	vehicle	models	and	in	evaluating	the	appropriateness
	
of	certain	aspects	of	management’s	significant	assumptions	related	to	the	nature	and	frequency	of	future	claims.
	
	
	
/s/	
PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP
	
San	Jose,	California
January	30,	2023
	
We	have	served	as	the	Company’s	auditor	since	2005.
	
47	
Tesla,	Inc.
Consolidated	Balance	Sheets
(in	millions,	except	per	share	data)
		
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Assets
	
	
	
	
	
	
Current	assets
	
	
	
	
	
	
Cash	and	cash	equivalents
	
$
16,253
	
	
$
17,576
	
Short-term	investments
	
	
5,932
	
	
	
131
	
Accounts	receivable,	net
	
	
2,952
	
	
	
1,913
	
Inventory
	
	
12,839
	
	
	
5,757
	
Prepaid	expenses	and	other	current	assets
	
	
2,941
	
	
	
1,723
	
Total	current	assets
	
	
40,917
	
	
	
27,100
	
Operating	lease	vehicles,	net
	
	
5,035
	
	
	
4,511
	
Solar	energy	systems,	net
	
	
5,489
	
	
	
5,765
	
Property,	plant	and	equipment,	net
	
	
23,548
	
	
	
18,884
	
Operating	lease	right-of-use	assets
	
	
2,563
	
	
	
2,016
	
Digital	assets,	net
	
	
184
	
	
	
1,260
	
Intangible	assets,	net
	
	
215
	
	
	
257
	
Goodwill
	
	
194
	
	
	
200
	
Other	non-current	assets
	
	
4,193
	
	
	
2,138
	
Total	assets
	
$
82,338
	
	
$
62,131
	
Liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
	
Current	liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
	
Accounts	payable
	
$
15,255
	
	
$
10,025
	
Accrued	liabilities	and	other
	
	
7,142
	
	
	
5,719
	
Deferred	revenue
	
	
1,747
	
	
	
1,447
	
Customer	deposits
	
	
1,063
	
	
	
925
	
Current	portion	of	debt	and	finance	leases
	
	
1,502
	
	
	
1,589
	
Total	current	liabilities
	
	
26,709
	
	
	
19,705
	
Debt	and	finance	leases,	net	of	current	portion
	
	
1,597
	
	
	
5,245
	
Deferred	revenue,	net	of	current	portion
	
	
2,804
	
	
	
2,052
	
Other	long-term	liabilities
	
	
5,330
	
	
	
3,546
	
Total	liabilities
	
	
36,440
	
	
	
30,548
	
Commitments	and	contingencies
	(Note	15)
	
	
	
	
	
	
Redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries
	
	
409
	
	
	
568
	
Equity
	
	
	
	
	
	
Stockholders’	equity
	
	
	
	
	
	
Preferred	stock;	$
0.001
	par	value;	
100
	shares	authorized;	
				
no
	shares	issued	and	outstanding
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Common	stock;	$
0.001
	par	value;	
6,000
	shares	authorized;	
				
3,164
	and	
3,100
	shares	issued	and	outstanding	as	of	
				December	31,	2022	and	December	31,	2021,	respectively	(1)
	
	
3
	
	
	
3
	
Additional	paid-in	capital
	
	
32,177
	
	
	
29,803
	
Accumulated	other	comprehensive	(loss)	income
	
	
(
361
)
	
	
54
	
Retained	earnings	(1)
	
	
12,885
	
	
	
329
	
Total	stockholders’	equity
	
	
44,704
	
	
	
30,189
	
Noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries
	
	
785
	
	
	
826
	
Total	liabilities	and	equity
	
$
82,338
	
	
$
62,131
	
	
(1)
Prior	period	results	have	been	adjusted	to	reflect	the	
three
-for-one	stock	split	effected	in	the	form	of	a	stock	dividend	in	August	2022
.	See	Note
	
1,	
Overview
,	for	details.
	
	
The	accompanying	notes	are	an	integral	part	of	these	consolidated	financial	statements.
48	
Tesla,	Inc.
Consolidated	Statements	of	Operations
(in	millions,	except	per	share	data)
		
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Revenues
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Automotive	sales
	
$
67,210
	
	
$
44,125
	
	
$
24,604
	
Automotive	regulatory	credits
	
	
1,776
	
	
	
1,465
	
	
	
1,580
	
Automotive	leasing
	
	
2,476
	
	
	
1,642
	
	
	
1,052
	
Total	automotive	revenues
	
	
71,462
	
	
	
47,232
	
	
	
27,236
	
Energy	generation	and	storage
	
	
3,909
	
	
	
2,789
	
	
	
1,994
	
Services	and	other
	
	
6,091
	
	
	
3,802
	
	
	
2,306
	
Total	revenues
	
	
81,462
	
	
	
53,823
	
	
	
31,536
	
Cost	of	revenues
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Automotive	sales
	
	
49,599
	
	
	
32,415
	
	
	
19,696
	
Automotive	leasing
	
	
1,509
	
	
	
978
	
	
	
563
	
Total	automotive	cost	of	revenues
	
	
51,108
	
	
	
33,393
	
	
	
20,259
	
Energy	generation	and	storage
	
	
3,621
	
	
	
2,918
	
	
	
1,976
	
Services	and	other
	
	
5,880
	
	
	
3,906
	
	
	
2,671
	
Total	cost	of	revenues
	
	
60,609
	
	
	
40,217
	
	
	
24,906
	
Gross	profit
	
	
20,853
	
	
	
13,606
	
	
	
6,630
	
Operating	expenses
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Research	and	development
	
	
3,075
	
	
	
2,593
	
	
	
1,491
	
Selling,	general	and	administrative
	
	
3,946
	
	
	
4,517
	
	
	
3,145
	
Restructuring	and	other
	
	
176
	
	
	
(
27
)
	
	
—
	
Total	operating	expenses
	
	
7,197
	
	
	
7,083
	
	
	
4,636
	
Income	from	operations
	
	
13,656
	
	
	
6,523
	
	
	
1,994
	
Interest	income
	
	
297
	
	
	
56
	
	
	
30
	
Interest	expense
	
	
(
191
)
	
	
(
371
)
	
	
(
748
)
Other	(expense)	income,	net
	
	
(
43
)
	
	
135
	
	
	
(
122
)
Income	before	income	taxes
	
	
13,719
	
	
	
6,343
	
	
	
1,154
	
Provision	for	income	taxes
	
	
1,132
	
	
	
699
	
	
	
292
	
Net	income
	
	
12,587
	
	
	
5,644
	
	
	
862
	
Net	income	attributable	to	noncontrolling	
			interests	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	
			in	subsidiaries
	
	
31
	
	
	
125
	
	
	
141
	
Net	income	attributable	to	common	stockholders
	
$
12,556
	
	
$
5,519
	
	
$
721
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Net	income	per	share	of	common	stock	
			attributable	to	common	stockholders	(1)
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Basic
	
$
4.02
	
	
$
1.87
	
	
$
0.25
	
Diluted
	
$
3.62
	
	
$
1.63
	
	
$
0.21
	
Weighted	average	shares	used	in	computing	net	
			income	per	share	of	common	stock	(1)
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Basic
	
	
3,130
	
	
	
2,959
	
	
	
2,798
	
Diluted
	
	
3,475
	
	
	
3,386
	
	
	
3,249
	
	
(1)
Prior	period	results	have	been	adjusted	to	reflect	the	
three
-for-one	stock	split	effected	in	the	form	of	a	stock	dividend	in	August	2022
.	See	Note
	
1,	
Overview
,	for	details.
	
The	accompanying	notes	are	an	integral	part	of	these	consolidated	financial	statements.
49	
Tesla,	Inc.
Consolidated	Statements	of	Comprehensive	Income
(in	millions)
		
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Net	income
	
$
12,587
	
	
$
5,644
	
	
$
862
	
Other	comprehensive	(loss)	income:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Foreign	currency	translation	adjustment
	
	
(
392
)
	
	
(
308
)
	
	
399
	
Unrealized	net	loss	on	investments
	
	
(
23
)
	
	
(
1
)
	
	
—
	
Comprehensive	income
	
	
12,172
	
	
	
5,335
	
	
	
1,261
	
Less:	Comprehensive	income	attributable	to	
			noncontrolling	interests	and	redeemable	
			noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries
	
	
31
	
	
	
125
	
	
	
141
	
Comprehensive	income	attributable	to	
			common	stockholders
	
$
12,141
	
	
$
5,210
	
	
$
1,120
	
	
The	accompanying	notes	are	an	integral	part	of	these	consolidated	financial	statements.
50	
Tesla,	Inc.
Consolidated	Statements	of	Redeemable	Noncontrolling	Interests	and	Equity
(in	millions,	except	per	share	data)
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Accumulate
d
	
	
(Accumulat
ed
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Redeemable
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Additio
nal
	
	
Other
	
	
Deficit)
	
	
Total
	
	
Noncontrolli
ng
	
	
	
	
	
	
Noncontroll
ing
	
	
	
Common	Stock
	
	
Paid-In
	
	
Comprehens
ive
	
	
Retained
	
	
Stockholde
rs’
	
	
Interests	in
	
	
Total
	
	
	
Interests
	
	
	
Shares
	
(1)
	
	
Amount
	
(1)
	
	
Capital
	
	
(Loss)
	
Income
	
	
Earnings
	
(1)
	
	
Equity
	
	
Subsidiaries
	
	
Equity
	
Balance	as	of	December	31,	2019
	
$
643
	
	
	
	
2,716
	
	
$
3
	
	
$
12,73
6
	
	
$
(
36
)
	
$
(
6,085
)
	
$
6,618
	
	
$
849
	
	
$
7,46
7
	
Adjustments	for	prior	periods	from	adopting	ASU	2016-13
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
37
)
	
	
(
37
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
37
)
Reclassification	between	equity	and	mezzanine	equity	for	convertible	senior	
			notes
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
51
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
51
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
51
)
Exercises	of	conversion	feature	of	convertible	senior	notes
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
5
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
59
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
59
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
59
	
Issuance	of	common	stock	for	equity	incentive	awards
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
55
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
417
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
417
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
417
	
Issuance	of	common	stock	in	public	offerings,	net	of	issuance	costs	of	$
68
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
103
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
12,26
9
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
12,269
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
12,2
69
	
Stock-based	compensation
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
1,861
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
1,861
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
1,86
1
	
Contributions	from	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
7
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
17
	
	
	
17
	
Distributions	to	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
(
67
)
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
132
)
	
	
(
132
)
Buy-outs	of	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
(
4
)
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
31
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
31
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
31
)
Net	income
	
	
25
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
721
	
	
	
721
	
	
	
116
	
	
	
837
	
Other	comprehensive	income
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
399
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
399
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
399
	
Balance	as	of	December	31,	2020
	
$
604
	
	
	
	
2,879
	
	
$
3
	
	
$
27,26
0
	
	
$
363
	
	
$
(
5,401
)
	
$
22,225
	
	
$
850
	
	
$
23,0
75
	
Adjustments	for	prior	periods	from	adopting	ASU	2020-06
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
474
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
211
	
	
	
(
263
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
263
)
Exercises	of	conversion	feature	of	convertible	senior	notes
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
2
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
6
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
6
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
6
	
Settlements	of	warrants
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
112
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Issuance	of	common	stock	for	equity	incentive	awards
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
107
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
707
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
707
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
707
	
Stock-based	compensation
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
2,299
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
2,299
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
2,29
9
	
Contributions	from	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
2
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Distributions	to	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
(
66
)
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
106
)
	
	
(
106
)
Buy-outs	of	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
(
15
)
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
5
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
5
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
5
	
Net	income
	
	
43
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
5,519
	
	
	
5,519
	
	
	
82
	
	
	
5,60
1
	
Other	comprehensive	loss
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
309
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
309
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
309
)
Balance	as	of	December	31,	2021
	
$
568
	
	
	
$
3,100
	
	
$
3
	
	
$
29,80
3
	
	
$
54
	
	
$
329
	
	
$
30,189
	
	
$
826
	
	
$
31,0
15
	
Exercises	of	conversion	feature	of	convertible	senior	notes
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Settlements	of	warrants
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
37
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Issuance	of	common	stock	for	equity	incentive	awards
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
27
	
	
	
0
	
	
	
541
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
541
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
541
	
Stock-based	compensation
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
1,806
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
1,806
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
1,80
6
	
Distributions	to	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
(
46
)
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
113
)
	
	
(
113
)
Buy-outs	of	noncontrolling	interests
	
	
(
11
)
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
27
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
27
	
	
	
(
61
)
	
	
(
34
)
Net	(loss)	income
	
	
(
102
)
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
12,556
	
	
	
12,556
	
	
	
133
	
	
	
12,6
89
	
Other	comprehensive	loss
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
415
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
415
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
415
)
Balance	as	of	December	31,	2022
	
$
409
	
	
	
	
3,164
	
	
$
3
	
	
$
32,17
7
	
	
$
(
361
)
	
$
12,885
	
	
$
44,704
	
	
$
785
	
	
$
45,4
89
	
	
(1)
Prior	period	results	have	been	adjusted	to	reflect	the	
three
-for-one	stock	split	effected	in	the	form	of	a	stock	dividend	in	August	2022
.	See	Note
	
1,	
Overview
,	for	details.
	
The	accompanying	notes	are	an	integral	part	of	these	consolidated	financial	statements.
51	
Tesla,	Inc.
Consolidated	Statements	of	Cash	Flows
(in	millions)
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Cash	Flows	from	Operating	Activities
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Net	income
	
$
12,587
	
	
$
5,644
	
	
$
862
	
Adjustments	to	reconcile	net	income	to	net	cash	provided	by	operating	activities:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Depreciation,	amortization	and	impairment
	
	
3,747
	
	
	
2,911
	
	
	
2,322
	
Stock-based	compensation
	
	
1,560
	
	
	
2,121
	
	
	
1,734
	
Inventory	and	purchase	commitments	write-downs
	
	
177
	
	
	
140
	
	
	
202
	
Foreign	currency	transaction	net	unrealized	loss	(gain)
	
	
81
	
	
	
(
55
)
	
	
114
	
Non-cash	interest	and	other	operating	activities
	
	
340
	
	
	
245
	
	
	
525
	
Digital	assets	loss	(gain),	net
	
	
140
	
	
	
(
27
)
	
	
—
	
Changes	in	operating	assets	and	liabilities:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Accounts	receivable
	
	
(
1,124
)
	
	
(
130
)
	
	
(
652
)
Inventory
	
	
(
6,465
)
	
	
(
1,709
)
	
	
(
422
)
Operating	lease	vehicles
	
	
(
1,570
)
	
	
(
2,114
)
	
	
(
1,072
)
Prepaid	expenses	and	other	current	assets
	
	
(
1,417
)
	
	
(
271
)
	
	
(
251
)
Other	non-current	assets
	
	
(
2,551
)
	
	
(
1,291
)
	
	
(
344
)
Accounts	payable	and	accrued	liabilities
	
	
6,029
	
	
	
4,578
	
	
	
2,102
	
Deferred	revenue
	
	
1,131
	
	
	
793
	
	
	
321
	
Customer	deposits
	
	
155
	
	
	
186
	
	
	
7
	
Other	long-term	liabilities
	
	
1,904
	
	
	
476
	
	
	
495
	
Net	cash	provided	by	operating	activities
	
	
14,724
	
	
	
11,497
	
	
	
5,943
	
Cash	Flows	from	Investing	Activities
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Purchases	of	property	and	equipment	excluding	finance	leases,	net	of	sales
	
	
(
7,158
)
	
	
(
6,482
)
	
	
(
3,157
)
Purchases	of	solar	energy	systems,	net	of	sales
	
	
(
5
)
	
	
(
32
)
	
	
(
75
)
Purchases	of	digital	assets
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
1,500
)
	
	
—
	
Proceeds	from	sales	of	digital	assets
	
	
936
	
	
	
272
	
	
	
—
	
Purchase	of	intangible	assets
	
	
(
9
)
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
10
)
Purchases	of	investments
	
	
(
5,835
)
	
	
(
132
)
	
	
—
	
Proceeds	from	maturities	of	investments
	
	
22
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Receipt	of	government	grants
	
	
76
	
	
	
6
	
	
	
123
	
Business	combinations,	net	of	cash	acquired
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
13
)
Net	cash	used	in	investing	activities
	
	
(
11,973
)
	
	
(
7,868
)
	
	
(
3,132
)
Cash	Flows	from	Financing	Activities
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Proceeds	from	issuances	of	common	stock	in	public	offerings,	net	of	issuance	costs
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
12,269
	
Proceeds	from	issuances	of	debt
	
	
—
	
	
	
8,883
	
	
	
9,713
	
Repayments	of	convertible	and	other	debt
	
	
(
3,364
)
	
	
(
14,167
)
	
	
(
11,623
)
Collateralized	lease	repayments
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
9
)
	
	
(
240
)
Proceeds	from	exercises	of	stock	options	and	other	stock	issuances
	
	
541
	
	
	
707
	
	
	
417
	
Principal	payments	on	finance	leases
	
	
(
502
)
	
	
(
439
)
	
	
(
338
)
Debt	issuance	costs
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
9
)
	
	
(
6
)
Proceeds	from	investments	by	noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries
	
	
—
	
	
	
2
	
	
	
24
	
Distributions	paid	to	noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries
	
	
(
157
)
	
	
(
161
)
	
	
(
208
)
Payments	for	buy-outs	of	noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries
	
	
(
45
)
	
	
(
10
)
	
	
(
35
)
Net	cash	(used	in)	provided	by	financing	activities
	
	
(
3,527
)
	
	
(
5,203
)
	
	
9,973
	
Effect	of	exchange	rate	changes	on	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	restricted	cash
	
	
(
444
)
	
	
(
183
)
	
	
334
	
Net	(decrease)	increase	in	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	restricted	cash
	
	
(
1,220
)
	
	
(
1,757
)
	
	
13,118
	
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	restricted	cash,	beginning	of	period
	
	
18,144
	
	
	
19,901
	
	
	
6,783
	
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	restricted	cash,	end	of	period
	
$
16,924
	
	
$
18,144
	
	
$
19,901
	
Supplemental	Non-Cash	Investing	and	Financing	Activities
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Acquisitions	of	property	and	equipment	included	in	liabilities
	
$
2,148
	
	
$
2,251
	
	
$
1,088
	
Supplemental	Disclosures
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Cash	paid	during	the	period	for	interest,	net	of	amounts	capitalized
	
$
152
	
	
$
266
	
	
$
444
	
Cash	paid	during	the	period	for	taxes,	net	of	refunds
	
$
1,203
	
	
$
561
	
	
$
115
	
	
The	accompanying	notes	are	an	integral	part	of	these	consolidated	financial	statements.
52	
Tesla,	Inc.
	
Notes	to	Consolidated	Financial	Statements
	
Note	1	–	Overview
Tesla,	Inc.	(“Tesla”,	the	“Company”,	“we”,	“us”	or	“our”)	was	incorporated	in	the	State	of	Delaware	on	July	1,	2003.	We	design,	develop,
	
manufacture,	sell	and	lease	high-performance	fully	electric	vehicles	and	energy	generation	and	storage	systems,	and	offer	services	related	to	our
	
products.	Our	Chief	Executive	Officer,	as	the	chief	operating	decision	maker	(“CODM”),	organizes	our	company,	manages	resource	allocations	and
	
measures	performance	among	
two
	operating	and	reportable	segments:	(i)	automotive	and	(ii)	energy	generation	and	stor
age.
Since	the	first	quarter	of	2020,	there	has	been	a	worldwide	impact	from	the	COVID-19	pandemic,	as	well	as	an	easing	of	restrictions	on	social,
	
business,	travel	and	government	activities	and	functions.	There	are	ongoing	global	impacts	resulting	from	the	pandemic,	and	we	have	been	affected	by
	
temporary	manufacturing	closures,	employment	and	compensation	adjustments	and	impediments	to	administrative	activities	supporting	our	product
	
deliveries	and	deployments.	In	addition,	we	have	experienced	and	are	experiencing	the	impacts	of	varying	levels	of	inflation	caused	by	the	COVID‐19
	
pandemic	and	general	global	economic	conditions.
On	August	5,	2022,	we	increased	the	number	of	authorized	shares	of	common	stock	by	
4,000,000,000
	shares
	and	our	Board	of	Directors	declared
	
the	2022	Stock	Split.	Each	stockholder	of	record	on	August	17,	2022	received	a	dividend	of	two	additional	shares	of	common	stock	for	each	then-held
	
share,	distributed	after	close	of	trading	on	August	24,	2022.	All	share	and	per	share	amounts	presented	herein	have	been	retroactively	adjusted	to
	
reflect	the	impact	of	the	2022	Stock	Split.
	
Note	2	–	Summary	of	Significant	Accounting	Policies
Principles	of	Consolidation
The	accompanying	consolidated	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	conformity	with	GAAP	and	reflect	our	accounts	and	operations	and
	
those	of	our	subsidiaries	in	which	we	have	a	controlling	financial	interest.	In	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	ASC	810,	
Consolidation	
(“ASC	810”),	we
	
consolidate	any	variable	interest	entity	(“VIE”)	of	which	we	are	the	primary	beneficiary.	We	have	formed	VIEs	with	financing	fund	investors	in	the
	
ordinary	course	of	business	in	order	to	facilitate	the	funding	and	monetization	of	certain	attributes	associated	with	solar	energy	systems	and	leases
	
under	our	direct	vehicle	leasing	programs.	The	typical	condition	for	a	controlling	financial	interest	ownership	is	holding	a	majority	of	the	voting
	
interests	of	an	entity;	however,	a	controlling	financial	interest	may	also	exist	in	entities,	such	as	VIEs,	through	arrangements	that	do	not	involve
	
controlling	voting	interests.	ASC	810	requires	a	variable	interest	holder	to	consolidate	a	VIE	if	that	party	has	the	power	to	direct	the	activities	of	the
	
VIE	that	most	significantly	impact	the	VIE’s	economic	performance	and	the	obligation	to	absorb	losses	of	the	VIE	that	could	potentially	be	significant	to
	
the	VIE	or	the	right	to	receive	benefits	from	the	VIE	that	could	potentially	be	significant	to	the	VIE.	We	do	not	consolidate	a	VIE	in	which	we	have	a
	
majority	ownership	interest	when	we	are	not	considered	the	primary	beneficiary.	We	have	determined	that	we	are	the	primary	beneficiary	of	all	the
	
VIEs	(see	Note	16
,	Variable	Interest	Entity	Arrangements
).	We	evaluate	our	relationships	with	all	the	VIEs	on	an	ongoing	basis	to	ensure	that	we
	
continue	to	be	the	primary	beneficiary.	All	intercompany	transactions	and	balances	have	been	eliminated	upon	consolidation.
Use	of	Estimates
The	preparation	of	financial	statements	in	conformity	with	GAAP	requires	management	to	make	estimates	and	assumptions	that	affect	the
	
reported	amounts	of	assets,	liabilities,	revenues,	costs	and	expenses	and	related	disclosures	in	the	accompanying	notes.	The	estimates	used	for,	but	not
	
limited	to,	determining	significant	economic	incentive	for	resale	value	guarantee	arrangements,	sales	return	reserves,	the	collectability	of	accounts	and
	
finance	receivables,	inventory	valuation,	warranties,	fair	value	of	long-lived	assets,	goodwill,	fair	value	of	financial	instruments,	fair	value	and	residual
	
value	of	operating	lease	vehicles	and	solar	energy	systems	subject	to	leases	could	be	impacted.	We	have	assessed	the	impact	and	are	not	aware	of	any
	
specific	events	or	circumstances	that	required	an	update	to	our	estimates	and	assumptions	or	materially	affected	the	carrying	value	of	our	assets	or
	
liabilities	as	of	the	date	of	issuance	of	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.	These	estimates	may	change	as	new	events	occur	and	additional	information	is
	
obtained.	Actual	results	could	differ	materially	from	these	estimates	under	different	assumptions	or	conditions.
Reclassifications
Certain	prior	period	balances	have	been	reclassified	to	conform	to	the	current	period	presentation	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements	and
	
the	accompanying	notes.
53	
Revenue	Recognition
Revenue	by	source
The	following	table	disaggregates	our	revenue	by	major	source	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Automotive	sales	(1)
	
$
67,210
	
	
$
44,125
	
	
$
24,604
	
Automotive	regulatory	credits
	
	
1,776
	
	
	
1,465
	
	
	
1,580
	
Energy	generation	and	storage	sales
	
	
3,376
	
	
	
2,279
	
	
	
1,477
	
Services	and	other
	
	
6,091
	
	
	
3,802
	
	
	
2,306
	
Total	revenues	from	sales	and	services
	
	
78,453
	
	
	
51,671
	
	
	
29,967
	
Automotive	leasing
	
	
2,476
	
	
	
1,642
	
	
	
1,052
	
Energy	generation	and	storage	leasing
	
	
533
	
	
	
510
	
	
	
517
	
Total	revenues
	
$
81,462
	
	
$
53,823
	
	
$
31,536
	
	
(1)
Pricing	adjustments	on	our	vehicle	offerings	can	impact	the	estimate	of	likelihood	that	customers	would	exercise	their	resale	value	guarantees,
	
resulting	in	an	adjustment	of	our	sales	return	reserve	on	vehicles	sold	with	resale	value	guarantees.	Actual	return	rates	being	lower	than
	
expected	and	increases	in	resale	values	of	our	vehicles	in	2021	resulted	in	a	net	release	of	our	reserve	of	$
365
	million	for	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021,	which	represented	increases	in	automotive	sales	revenue.	The	net	release	or	increase	of	reserves	which	impacted
	
automotive	sales	revenue	were	immaterial	for	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	December	31,	2020.	Further,	$
324
	million	of	the	total
	
revenue	recognized	as	of	December	31,	2022	is	related	to	the	general	FSD	feature	release	in	North	America	in	the	fourth	quarter	of	2022.
	
Automotive	Segment
Automotive	Sales
Automotive	sales	revenue	includes	revenues	related	to	cash	and	financing	deliveries	of	new	vehicles,	and	specific	other	features	and	services
	
that	meet	the	definition	of	a	performance	obligation	under	ASC	606,	including	access	to	our	FSD	features,	internet	connectivity,	Supercharger	network
	
and	over-the-air	software	updates.	We	recognize	revenue	on	automotive	sales	upon	delivery	to	the	customer,	which	is	when	the	control	of	a	vehicle
	
transfers.	Payments	are	typically	received	at	the	point	control	transfers	or	in	accordance	with	payment	terms	customary	to	the	business,	except	sales
	
we	finance	for	which	payments	are	collected	over	the	contractual	loan	term.	We	also	recognize	a	sales	return	reserve	based	on	historical	experience
	
plus	consideration	for	expected	future	market	values,	when	we	offer	resale	value	guarantees	or	similar	buyback	terms.	Other	features	and	services	such
	
as	access	to	our	internet	connectivity,	legacy	programs	offering	unlimited	free	Supercharging	and	over-the-air	software	updates	are	provisioned	upon
	
control	transfer	of	a	vehicle	and	recognized	over	time	on	a	straight-line	basis	as	we	have	a	stand-ready	obligation	to	deliver	such	services	to	the
	
customer.	Other	limited	free	Supercharging	incentives	are	recognized	based	on	actual	usage	or	expiration,	whichever	is	earlier.	We	recognize	revenue
	
related	to	these	other	features	and	services	over	the	performance	period,	which	is	generally	the	expected	ownership	life	of	the	vehicle.	Revenue	related
	
to	FSD	is	recognized	when	functionality	is	delivered	to	the	customer	and	the	portion	related	to	software	updates	is	recognized	over	time.	For	our
	
obligations	related	to	automotive	sales,	we	estimate	standalone	selling	price	by	considering	costs	used	to	develop	and	deliver	the	service,	third-party
	
pricing	of	similar	options	and	other	information	that	may	be	available.
Any	fees	that	are	paid	or	payable	by	us	to	a	customer’s	lender	when	we	arrange	the	financing	are	recognized	as	an	offset	against	automotive
	
sales	revenue.	Costs	to	obtain	a	contract	mainly	relate	to	commissions	paid	to	our	sales	personnel	for	the	sale	of	vehicles.	As	our	contract	costs	related
	
to	automotive	sales	are	typically	fulfilled	within	one	year,	the	costs	to	obtain	a	contract	are	expensed	as	incurred.	Amounts	billed	to	customers	related
	
to	shipping	and	handling	are	classified	as	automotive	sales	revenue,	and	we	have	elected	to	recognize	the	cost	for	freight	and	shipping	when	control
	
over	vehicles,	parts	or	accessories	have	transferred	to	the	customer	as	an	expense	in	cost	of	automotive	sales	revenue.	Our	policy	is	to	exclude	taxes
	
collected	from	a	customer	from	the	transaction	price	of	automotive	contracts.
54	
We	offer	resale	value	guarantees	or	similar	buy-back	terms	to	certain	international	customers	who	purchase	vehicles	and	who	finance	their
	
vehicles	through	one	of	our	specified	commercial	banking	partners.	Under	these	programs,	we	receive	full	payment	for	the	vehicle	sales	price	at	the
	
time	of	delivery	and	our	counterparty	has	the	option	of	selling	their	vehicle	back	to	us	during	the	guarantee	period,	which	currently	is	generally	at	the
	
end	of	the	term	of	the	applicable	loan	or	financing	program,	for	a	pre-determined	resale	value.	We	account	for	such	automotive	sales	as	a	sale	with	a
	
right	of	return	when	we	do	not	believe	the	customer	has	a	significant	economic	incentive	to	exercise	the	resale	value	guarantee	provided	to	them	at
	
contract	inception.	The	process	to	determine	whether	there	is	a	significant	economic	incentive	includes	a	comparison	of	a	vehicle’s	estimated	market
	
value	at	the	time	the	option	is	exercisable	with	the	guaranteed	resale	value	to	determine	the	customer’s	economic	incentive	to	exercise.	On	a	quarterly
	
basis,	we	assess	the	estimated	market	values	of	vehicles	sold	with	resale	value	guarantees	to	determine	whether	there	have	been	changes	to	the
	
likelihood	of	future	product	returns.	As	we	accumulate	more	data	related	to	the	resale	values	of	our	vehicles	or	as	market	conditions	change,	there	may
	
be	material	changes	to	their	estimated	values.	The	total	sales	return	reserve	on	vehicles	sold	with	resale	value	guarantees	was	
$
91
	million	and	
$
223
	
million	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	respectively,	of	which	
$
40
	million	and	
$
91
	million	was	short-term,	respectively.
	
Deferred	revenue	related	to	the	access	to	our	FSD	features,	internet	connectivity,	free	Supercharging	programs	and	over-the-air	software
	
updates	primarily	on	automotive	sales	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Deferred	revenue—	beginning	of	period
	
$
2,382
	
	
$
1,926
	
Additions
	
	
1,178
	
	
	
847
	
Net	changes	in	liability	for	pre-existing	contracts
	
	
(
67
)
	
	
(
25
)
Revenue	recognized
	
	
(
580
)
	
	
(
366
)
Deferred	revenue—	end	of	period
	
$
2,913
	
	
$
2,382
	
Deferred	revenue	is	equivalent	to	the	total	transaction	price	allocated	to	the	performance	obligations	that	are	unsatisfied,	or	partially	unsatisfied,
	
as	of	the	balance	sheet	date.	Revenue	recognized	from	the	deferred	revenue	balance	as	of	December	31,	2021	was	
$
472
	million	as	of	December	31,
	
2022,	primarily	related	to	the	general	FSD	feature	release	in	North	America	in	the	fourth	quarter	of	2022.	We	had	recognized	revenue	of	
$
312
	million
	
from	the	deferred	revenue	balance	as	of	December	31,	2020,	for	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021.	Of	the	total	deferred	revenue	balance	as	of
	
December	31,	2022,	we	expect	to	recognize	
$
639
	million	of	revenue	in	the	next	12	months.	The	remaining	balance	will	be	recognized	at	the	time	of
	
transfer	of	control	of	the	product	or	over	the	performance	period	as	discussed	above	in	Automotive	Sales.
We	have	been	providing	loans	for	financing	our	automotive	deliveries	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022.	We	have	recorded	net	financing
	
receivables	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets,	of	which	$
128
	million	is	recorded	within	Accounts	receivable,	net,	for	the	current	portion	and	$
665
	
million	is	recorded	within	Other	non-current	assets	for	the	long-term	portion,	as	of	December	31,	2022.
Automotive	Regulatory	Credits
We	earn	tradable	credits	in	the	operation	of	our	automotive	business	under	various	regulations	related	to	ZEVs,	greenhouse	gas,	fuel	economy
	
and	clean	fuel.	We	sell	these	credits	to	other	regulated	entities	who	can	use	the	credits	to	comply	with	emission	standards	and	other	regulatory
	
requirements.
	
Payments	for	automotive	regulatory	credits	are	typically	received	at	the	point	control	transfers	to	the	customer,	or	in	accordance	with	payment
	
terms	customary	to	the	business.	We	recognize	revenue	on	the	sale	of	automotive	regulatory	credits,	which	have	negligible	incremental	costs	associated
	
with	them,	at	the	time	control	of	the	regulatory	credits	is	transferred	to	the	purchasing	party.	Deferred	revenue	related	to	sales	of	automotive
	
regulatory	credits	was	immaterial	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021.	Revenue	recognized	from	the	deferred	revenue	balance	as	of	December	31,	2021
	
and	2020	was	immaterial	for	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021.	During	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022
,	we	had	also	recognized	$
288
	
million	in	revenue	due	to	changes	in	regulation	which	entitled	us	to	additional	consideration	for	credits	sold	previously.
55	
Automotive	Leasing	Revenue
Direct	Vehicle	Operating	Leasing	Program
We	have	outstanding	leases	under	our	direct	vehicle	operating	leasing	programs	in	the	U.S.,	Canada	and	in	certain	countries	in	Europe.
	
Qualifying	customers	are	permitted	to	lease	a	vehicle	directly	from	Tesla	for	up	to	
48
	months.	At	the	end	of	the	lease	term,	customers	are	generally
	
required	to	return	the	vehicles	to	us.	We	account	for	these	leasing	transactions	as	operating	leases.	We	record	leasing	revenues	to	automotive	leasing
	
revenue	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	contractual	term,	and	we	record	the	depreciation	of	these	vehicles	to	cost	of	automotive	leasing	revenue.
	For
	
the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	we	recognized	$
1.75
	billion,	$
1.25
	billion	and	$
752
	million	of	direct	vehicle	leasing	revenue,
	
respectively.	As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	had	deferred	$
407
	million	and	$
392
	million,	respectively,	of	lease-related	upfront	payments,	which
	
will	be	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	contractual	terms	of	the	individual	leases.
Our	policy	is	to	exclude	taxes	collected	from	a	customer	from	the	transaction	price	of	automotive	contracts.
Direct	Sales-Type	Leasing	Program
We	have	outstanding	direct	leases	and	vehicles	financed	by	us	under	loan	arrangements	accounted	for	as	sales-type	leases	under	ASC	842,
	
Leases	
(“ASC	842”),	
in	certain	countries	in	Asia	and	Europe.	Depending	on	the	specific	program,	customers	may	or	may	not	have	a	right	to	return	the
	
vehicle	to	us	during	or	at	the	end	of	the	lease	term.	If	the	customer	does	not	have	a	right	to	return,	the	customer	will	take	title	to	the	vehicle	at	the	end
	
of	the	lease	term	after	making	all	contractual	payments.	Under	the	programs	for	which	there	is	a	right	to	return,	the	purchase	option	is	reasonably
	
certain	to	be	exercised	by	the	lessee	and	we	therefore	expect	the	customer	to	take	title	to	the	vehicle	at	the	end	of	the	lease	term	after	making	all
	
contractual	payments.	Our	arrangements	under	these	programs	can	have	terms	for	up	to	
72
	months.	We	recognize	all	revenue	and	costs	associated
	
with	the	sales-type	lease	as	automotive	leasing	revenue	and	automotive	leasing	cost	of	revenue,	respectively,	upon	delivery	of	the	vehicle	to	the
	
customer.	Interest	income	based	on	the	implicit	rate	in	the	lease	is	recorded	to	automotive	leasing	revenue	over	time	as	customers	are	invoiced	on	a
	
monthly	basis.
	For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	we	recognized	$
683
	million,	$
369
	million	and	$
120
	million,	respectively,	of
	
sales-type	leasing	revenue	and	$
427
	million,	$
234
	million	and	$
87
	million,	respectively,	of	sales-type	leasing	cost	of	revenue.
Services	and	Other	Revenue
Services	and	other	revenue	consists	of	non-warranty	after-sales	vehicle	services	and	parts,	sales	of	used	vehicles,	paid	Supercharging,	retail
	
merchandise	and	vehicle	insurance	revenue.
Revenues	related	to	repair	and	maintenance	services	are	recognized	over	time	as	services	are	provided	and	extended	service	plans	are
	
recognized	over	the	performance	period	of	the	service	contract	as	the	obligation	represents	a	stand-ready	obligation	to	the	customer.	We	sell	used
	
vehicles,	services,	service	plans,	vehicle	components	and	merchandise	separately	and	thus	use	standalone	selling	prices	as	the	basis	for	revenue
	
allocation	to	the	extent	that	these	items	are	sold	in	transactions	with	other	performance	obligations.	Payment	for	used	vehicles,	services,	and
	
merchandise	are	typically	received	at	the	point	when	control	transfers	to	the	customer	or	in	accordance	with	payment	terms	customary	to	the	business.
	
Payments	received	for	prepaid	plans	are	refundable	upon	customer	cancellation	of	the	related	contracts	and	are	included	within	Customer	deposits	on
	
the	consolidated	balance	sheets.	Deferred	revenue	related	to	services	and	other	revenue	was	immaterial	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage	Segment
Energy	Generation	and	Storage	Sales
Energy	generation	and	storage	sales	revenue	consists	of	the	sale	of	solar	energy	systems	and	energy	storage	systems	to	residential,	small
	
commercial,	large	commercial	and	utility	grade	customers.	Sales	of	solar	energy	systems	to	residential	and	small	scale	commercial	customers	consist	of
	
the	engineering,	design	and	installation	of	the	system.	Residential	and	small	scale	commercial	customers	pay	the	full	purchase	price	of	the	solar	energy
	
system	upfront.	Revenue	for	the	design	and	installation	obligation	is	recognized	when	control	transfers,	which	is	when	we	install	a	solar	energy	system
	
and	the	system	passes	inspection	by	the	utility	or	the	authority	having	jurisdiction.	Sales	of	energy	storage	systems	to	residential	and	small	scale
	
commercial	customers	consist	of	the	installation	of	the	energy	storage	system	and	revenue	is	recognized	when	control	transfers,	which	is	when	the
	
product	has	been	delivered	or,	if	we	are	performing	installation,	when	installed	and	commissioned.	Payment	for	such	storage	systems	is	made	upon
	
invoice	or	in	accordance	with	payment	terms	customary	to	the	business.
For	large	commercial	and	utility	grade	solar	energy	system	and	energy	storage	system	sales	which	consist	of	the	engineering,	design	and
	
installation	of	the	system,	customers	make	milestone	payments	that	are	consistent	with	contract-specific	phases	of	a	project.	Revenue	from	such
	
contracts	is	recognized	over	time	using	the	percentage	of	completion	method	based	on	cost	incurred	as	a	percentage	of	total	estimated	contract	costs
	
for	energy	storage	system	sales	and	as	a	percentage	of	total	estimated	labor	hours	for	solar	energy	system	sales.
	
56	
In	instances	where	there	are	multiple	performance	obligations	in	a	single	contract,	we	allocate	the	consideration	to	the	various	obligations	in	the
	
contract	based	on	the	relative	standalone	selling	price	method.	Standalone	selling	prices	are	estimated	based	on	estimated	costs	plus	margin	or	by
	
using	market	data	for	comparable	products.	Costs	incurred	on	the	sale	of	residential	installations	before	the	solar	energy	systems	are	completed	are
	
included	as	work	in	process	within	inventory	in	the	consolidated	balance	sheets.	Any	fees	that	are	paid	or	payable	by	us	to	a	solar	loan	lender	would	be
	
recognized	as	an	offset	against	revenue.	Costs	to	obtain	a	contract	relate	mainly	to	commissions	paid	to	our	sales	personnel	related	to	the	sale	of	solar
	
energy	systems	and	energy	storage	systems.	As	our	contract	costs	related	to	solar	energy	system	and	energy	storage	system	sales	are	typically	fulfilled
	
within	one	year,	the	costs	to	obtain	a	contract	are	expensed	as	incurred.
As	part	of	our	solar	energy	system	and	energy	storage	system	contracts,	we	may	provide	the	customer	with	performance	guarantees	that
	
warrant	that	the	underlying	system	will	meet	or	exceed	the	minimum	energy	generation	or	energy	performance	requirements	specified	in	the	contract.
	
In	certain	instances,	we	may	receive	a	bonus	payment	if	the	system	performs	above	a	specified	level.	Conversely,	if	a	solar	energy	system	or	energy
	
storage	system	does	not	meet	the	performance	guarantee	requirements,	we	may	be	required	to	pay	liquidated	damages.	Other	forms	of	variable
	
consideration	related	to	our	large	commercial	and	utility	grade	solar	energy	system	and	energy	storage	system	contracts	include	variable	customer
	
payments	that	will	be	made	based	on	our	energy	market	participation	activities.	Such	guarantees	and	variable	customer	payments	represent	a	form	of
	
variable	consideration	and	are	estimated	at	contract	inception	at	their	most	likely	amount	and	updated	at	the	end	of	each	reporting	period	as	additional
	
performance	data	becomes	available.	Such	estimates	are	included	in	the	transaction	price	only	to	the	extent	that	it	is	probable	a	significant	reversal	of
	
revenue	will	not	occur.
We	record	as	deferred	revenue	any	non-refundable	amounts	that	are	collected	from	customers	related	to	fees	charged	for	prepayments,	which	is
	
recognized	as	revenue	ratably	over	the	respective	customer	contract	term.	As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	deferred	revenue	related	to	such
	
customer	payments	amounted	to	
$
863
	million	and	
$
399
	million,	respectively,	mainly	due	to	milestone	payments.	Revenue	recognized	from	the	deferred
	
revenue	balance	as	of	December	31,	2021	and	2020	was	
$
171
	million	and	
$
93
	million	for	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	respectively.
	
We	have	elected	the	practical	expedient	to	omit	disclosure	of	the	amount	of	the	transaction	price	allocated	to	remaining	performance	obligations	for
	
energy	generation	and	storage	sales	with	an	original	expected	contract	length	of	one	year	or	less	and	the	amount	that	we	have	the	right	to	invoice	when
	
that	amount	corresponds	directly	with	the	value	of	the	performance	to	date.	As	of	December	31,	2022,	total	transaction	price	allocated	to	performance
	
obligations	that	were	unsatisfied	or	partially	unsatisfied	for	contracts	with	an	original	expected	length	of	more	than	one	year	was	
$
210
	
million.	Of	this
	
amount,	we	expect	to	recognize	
$
12
	million
	in	the	next	12	months	and	the	remaining	over	a	period	up	to	
25
	years.
	
We	have	been	providing	loans	for	financing	our	energy	generation	products	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022.	We	have	recorded	net
	
financing	receivables	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets,	of	which	$
24
	million	is	recorded	within	Accounts	receivable,	net,	for	the	current	portion	and
	
$
387
	million	is	recorded	within	Other	non-current	assets	for	the	long-term	portion,	as	of	December	31,	2022.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage	Leasing
For	revenue	arrangements	where	we	are	the	lessor	under	operating	lease	agreements	for	energy	generation	and	storage	products,	we	record
	
lease	revenue	from	minimum	lease	payments,	including	upfront	rebates	and	incentives	earned	from	such	systems,	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	life	of
	
the	lease	term,	assuming	all	other	revenue	recognition	criteria	have	been	met.	The	difference	between	the	payments	received	and	the	revenue
	
recognized	is	recorded	as	deferred	revenue	or	deferred	asset	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheet.
For	solar	energy	systems	where	customers	purchase	electricity	from	us	under	PPAs	prior	to	January	1,	2019,	we	have	determined	that	these
	
agreements	should	be	accounted	for	as	operating	leases	pursuant	to	ASC	840,	
Leases
.	Revenue	is	recognized	based	on	the	amount	of	electricity
	
delivered	at	rates	specified	under	the	contracts,	assuming	all	other	revenue	recognition	criteria	are	met.
We	record	as	deferred	revenue	any	amounts	that	are	collected	from	customers,	including	lease	prepayments,	in	excess	of	revenue	recognized,
	
which	is	recognized	as	revenue	ratably	over	the	respective	customer	contract	term.
	As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	deferred	revenue	related	to
	
such	customer	payments	amounted	to	$
191
	million	and	$
198
	million,	respectively.	
Deferred	revenue	also	includes	the	portion	of	rebates	and	incentives
	
received	from	utility	companies	and	various	local	and	state	government	agencies,	which	is	recognized	as	revenue	over	the	lease	term.
	As	of	December
	
31,	2022	and	2021,	deferred	revenue	from	rebates	and	incentives	amounted	to	$
25
	million	and	$
27
	million,	respectively.
We	capitalize	initial	direct	costs	from	the	execution	of	agreements	for	solar	energy	systems	and	PPAs,	which	include	the	referral	fees	and	sales
	
commissions,	as	an	element	of	solar	energy	systems,	net,	and	subsequently	amortize	these	costs	over	the	term	of	the	related	agreements.
57	
Cost	of	Revenues
Automotive	Segment
Automotive	Sales
Cost	of	automotive	sales	revenue	includes	direct	and	indirect	materials,	labor	costs,	manufacturing	overhead,	including	depreciation	costs	of
	
tooling	and	machinery,	shipping	and	logistic	costs,	vehicle	connectivity	costs,	allocations	of	electricity	and	infrastructure	costs	related	to	our
	
Supercharger	network	and	reserves	for	estimated	warranty	expenses.	Cost	of	automotive	sales	revenues	also	includes	adjustments	to	warranty	expense
	
and	charges	to	write	down	the	carrying	value	of	our	inventory	when	it	exceeds	its	estimated	net	realizable	value	and	to	provide	for	obsolete	and	on-
hand	inventory	in	excess	of	forecasted	demand.
	
Automotive	Leasing
Cost	of	automotive	leasing	revenue	includes	the	depreciation	of	operating	lease	vehicles,	cost	of	goods	sold	associated	with	direct	sales-type
	
leases	and	warranty	expense	related	to	leased	vehicles.	Cost	of	automotive	leasing	revenue	also	includes	vehicle	connectivity	costs	and	allocations	of
	
electricity	and	infrastructure	costs	related	to	our	Supercharger	network	for	vehicles	under	our	leasing	programs.
Services	and	Other
Costs	of	services	and	other	revenue	includes	costs	associated	with	providing	non-warranty	after-sales	services	and	parts,	costs	of	paid
	
Supercharging,	cost	of	used	vehicles	including	refurbishment	costs,	costs	for	retail	merchandise,	and	costs	to	provide	vehicle	insurance.
Energy	Generation	and	Storage	Segment
Energy	Generation	and	Storage
Cost	of	energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	includes	direct	and	indirect	material	and	labor	costs,	warehouse	rent,	freight,	warranty	expense,
	
other	overhead	costs	and	amortization	of	certain	acquired	intangible	assets.	Cost	of	energy	generation	and	storage	revenue	also	includes	charges	to
	
write	down	the	carrying	value	of	our	inventory	when	it	exceeds	its	estimated	net	realizable	value	and	to	provide	for	obsolete	and	on-hand	inventory	in
	
excess	of	forecasted	demand.	In	agreements	for	solar	energy	systems	and	PPAs	where	we	are	the	lessor,	the	cost	of	revenue	is	primarily	comprised	of
	
depreciation	of	the	cost	of	leased	solar	energy	systems,	maintenance	costs	associated	with	those	systems	and	amortization	of	any	initial	direct	costs.
Research	and	Development	Costs
Research	and	development	costs	are	expensed	as	incurred.
Income	Taxes
Income	taxes	are	computed	using	the	asset	and	liability	method,	under	which	deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	are	determined	based	on	the
	
difference	between	the	financial	statement	and	tax	bases	of	assets	and	liabilities	using	enacted	tax	rates	in	effect	for	the	year	in	which	the	differences
	
are	expected	to	affect	taxable	income.	Valuation	allowances	are	established	when	necessary	to	reduce	deferred	tax	assets	to	the	amount	expected	to	be
	
realized.
We	record	liabilities	related	to	uncertain	tax	positions	when,	despite	our	belief	that	our	tax	return	positions	are	supportable,	we	believe	that	it	is
	
more	likely	than	not	that	those	positions	may	not	be	fully	sustained	upon	review	by	tax	authorities.	Accrued	interest	and	penalties	related	to
	
unrecognized	tax	benefits	are	classified	as	income	tax	expense.
The	Tax	Cuts	and	Jobs	Act	(“TCJA”)	subjects	a	U.S.	shareholder	to	tax	on	global	intangible	low-taxed	income	(“GILTI”)	earned	by	certain	foreign
	
subsidiaries.	Under	GAAP,	we	can	make	an	accounting	policy	election	to	either	treat	taxes	due	on	the	GILTI	inclusion	as	a	current	period	expense	or
	
factor	such	amounts	into	our	measurement	of	deferred	taxes.	We	elected	the	deferred	method,	under	which	we	recorded	the	corresponding	deferred	tax
	
assets	and	liabilities	in	our	consolidated	balance	sheets,	currently	subject	to	valuation	allowance.
Comprehensive	Income
Comprehensive	income	is	comprised	of	net	income	and	other	comprehensive	(loss)	income.	Other	comprehensive	(loss)	income	consists	of
	
foreign	currency	translation	adjustments	and	unrealized	net	gains	and	losses	on	investments
	that	have	been	excluded	from	the	determination	of	net
	
income.
58	
Stock-Based	Compensation
We	use	the	fair	value	method	of	accounting	for	our	stock	options	and	RSUs	granted	to	employees	and	for	our	ESPP	to	measure	the	cost	of
	
employee	services	received	in	exchange	for	the	stock-based	awards.	The	fair	value	of	stock	option	awards	with	only	service	and/or	performance
	
conditions	is	estimated	on	the	grant	or	offering	date	using	the	Black-Scholes	option-pricing	model.	The	Black-Scholes	option-pricing	model	requires
	
inputs	such	as	the	risk-free	interest	rate,	expected	term	and	expected	volatility.	These	inputs	are	subjective	and	generally	require	significant	judgment.
	
The	fair	value	of	RSUs	is	measured	on	the	grant	date	based	on	the	closing	fair	market	value	of	our	common	stock.	The	resulting	cost	is	recognized	over
	
the	period	during	which	an	employee	is	required	to	provide	service	in	exchange	for	the	awards,	usually	the	vesting	period,	which	is	generally	four	years
	
for	stock	options	and	RSUs	and	six	months	for	the	ESPP.	Stock-based	compensation	expense	is	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis,	net	of	actual
	
forfeitures	in	the	period.
For	performance-based	awards,	stock-based	compensation	expense	is	recognized	over	the	expected	performance	achievement	period	of
	
individual	performance	milestones	when	the	achievement	of	each	individual	performance	milestone	becomes	probable.
	
As	we	accumulate	additional	employee	stock-based	awards	data	over	time	and	as	we	incorporate	market	data	related	to	our	common	stock,	we
	
may	calculate	significantly	different	volatilities	and	expected	lives,	which	could	materially	impact	the	valuation	of	our	stock-based	awards	and	the	stock-
based	compensation	expense	that	we	will	recognize	in	future	periods.	Stock-based	compensation	expense	is	recorded	in	Cost	of	revenues,	Research	and
	
development	expense	and	Selling,	general	and	administrative	expense	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	operations.
Noncontrolling	Interests	and	Redeemable	Noncontrolling	Interests
Noncontrolling	interests	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	represent	third-party	interests	in	the	net	assets	under	certain	funding
	
arrangements,	or	funds,	that	we	have	entered	into	to	finance	the	costs	of	solar	energy	systems	and	vehicles	under	operating	leases.	We	have
	
determined	that	the	contractual	provisions	of	the	funds	represent	substantive	profit-sharing	arrangements.	We	have	further	determined	that	the
	
methodology	for	calculating	the	noncontrolling	interest	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interest	balances	that	reflects	the	substantive	profit-sharing
	
arrangements	is	a	balance	sheet	approach	using	the	hypothetical	liquidation	at	book	value	(“HLBV”)	method.	We,	therefore,	determine	the	amount	of
	
the	noncontrolling	interests	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	in	the	net	assets	of	the	funds	at	each	balance	sheet	date	using	the	HLBV	method,
	
which	is	presented	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	as	noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	in	subsidiaries.
	
Under	the	HLBV	method,	the	amounts	reported	as	noncontrolling	interests	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interests	in	the	consolidated	balance	sheet
	
represent	the	amounts	the	third	parties	would	hypothetically	receive	at	each	balance	sheet	date	under	the	liquidation	provisions	of	the	funds,	assuming
	
the	net	assets	of	the	funds	were	liquidated	at	their	recorded	amounts	determined	in	accordance	with	GAAP	and	with	tax	laws	effective	at	the	balance
	
sheet	date	and	distributed	to	the	third	parties.	The	third	parties’	interests	in	the	results	of	operations	of	the	funds	are	determined	as	the	difference	in
	
the	noncontrolling	interest	and	redeemable	noncontrolling	interest	balances	in	the	consolidated	balance	sheets	between	the	start	and	end	of	each
	
reporting	period,	after	taking	into	account	any	capital	transactions	between	the	funds	and	the	third	parties.	However,	the	redeemable	noncontrolling
	
interest	balance	is	at	least	equal	to	the	redemption	amount.	The	redeemable	noncontrolling	interest	balance	is	presented	as	temporary	equity	in	the
	
mezzanine	section	of	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	since	these	third	parties	have	the	right	to	redeem	their	interests	in	the	funds	for	cash	or	other
	
assets.	For	certain	funds,	there	may	be	significant	fluctuations	in	net	income	attributable	to	noncontrolling	interests	and	redeemable	noncontrolling
	
interests	in	subsidiaries	due	to	changes	in	the	liquidation	provisions	as	time-based	milestones	are	reached.
Net	Income	per	Share	of	Common	Stock	Attributable	to	Common	Stockholders
Basic	net	income	per	share	of	common	stock	attributable	to	common	stockholders	is	calculated	by	dividing	net	income	attributable	to	common
	
stockholders	by	the	weighted-average	shares	of	common	stock	outstanding	for	the	period.	Potentially	dilutive	shares,	which	are	based	on	the	weighted-
average	shares	of	common	stock	underlying	outstanding	stock-based	awards,	warrants	and	convertible	senior	notes	using	the	treasury	stock	method	or
	
the	if-converted	method,	as	applicable,	are	included	when	calculating	diluted	net	income	per	share	of	common	stock	attributable	to	common
	
stockholders	when	their	effect	is	dilutive.
	
Furthermore,	in	connection	with	the	offerings	of	our	convertible	senior	notes,	we	entered	into	convertible	note	hedges	and	warrants	(see	Note
	
11,	
Debt
).	However,	our	convertible	note	hedges	are	not	included	when	calculating	potentially	dilutive	shares	since	their	effect	is	always	anti-dilutive.
	
The	strike	price	on	the	warrants	were	below	our	average	share	price	during	the	period	and	were	included	in	the	tables	below.	Warrants	are	included	in
	
the	weighted-average	shares	used	in	computing	basic	net	income	per	share	of	common	stock	in	the	period(s)	they	are	settled.
	
	
59	
The	following	table	presents	the	reconciliation	of	net	income	attributable	to	common	stockholders	to	net	income	used	in	computing	basic	and
	
diluted	net	income	per	share	of	common	stock	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Net	income	attributable	to	common	stockholders
	
$
12,556
	
	
$
5,519
	
	
$
721
	
Less:	Buy-out	of	noncontrolling	interest
	
	
(
27
)
	
	
(
5
)
	
	
31
	
Net	income	used	in	computing	basic	net	income	per	share	of
	
common	stock
	
	
12,583
	
	
	
5,524
	
	
	
690
	
Less:	Dilutive	convertible	debt
	
	
(
1
)
	
	
(
9
)
	
	
—
	
Net	income	used	in	computing	diluted	net	income	per	share	of
	
common	stock
	
$
12,584
	
	
$
5,533
	
	
$
690
	
	
The	following	table	presents	the	reconciliation	of	basic	to	diluted	weighted	average	shares	used	in	computing	net	income	per	share	of	common
	
stock	attributable	to	common	stockholders,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Weighted	average	shares	used	in	computing	net	income	per	share	of
	
common	stock,	basic
	
	
3,130
	
	
	
2,959
	
	
	
2,798
	
Add:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Stock-based	awards
	
	
310
	
	
	
292
	
	
	
198
	
Convertible	senior	notes
	
	
3
	
	
	
29
	
	
	
141
	
Warrants
	
	
32
	
	
	
106
	
	
	
112
	
Weighted	average	shares	used	in	computing	net	income	per	share	of
	
common	stock,	diluted
	
	
3,475
	
	
	
3,386
	
	
	
3,249
	
	
The	following	table	presents	the	potentially	dilutive	shares	that	were	excluded	from	the	computation	of	diluted	net	income	per	share	of	common
	
stock	attributable	to	common	stockholders,	because	their	effect	was	anti-dilutive,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Stock-based	awards
	
	
4
	
	
	
1
	
	
	
6
	
Convertible	senior	notes	(1)
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
3
	
(1)
Under	the	modified	retrospective	method	of	adoption	of	ASU	2020-06,	the	dilutive	impact	of	convertible	senior	notes	was	calculated	using	the	if-
converted	method	for	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021.	Certain	convertible	senior	notes	were	calculated	using	the	treasury	stock
	
method	for	the	year	ended	December	31,	2020.
Business	Combinations
We	account	for	business	acquisitions	under	ASC	805,	
Business	Combinations
.	The	total	purchase	consideration	for	an	acquisition	is	measured	as
	
the	fair	value	of	the	assets	given,	equity	instruments	issued	and	liabilities	assumed	at	the	acquisition	date.	Costs	that	are	directly	attributable	to	the
	
acquisition	are	expensed	as	incurred.	Identifiable	assets	(including	intangible	assets),	liabilities	assumed	(including	contingent	liabilities)	and
	
noncontrolling	interests	in	an	acquisition	are	measured	initially	at	their	fair	values	at	the	acquisition	date.	We	recognize	goodwill	if	the	fair	value	of	the
	
total	purchase	consideration	and	any	noncontrolling	interests	is	in	excess	of	the	net	fair	value	of	the	identifiable	assets	acquired	and	the	liabilities
	
assumed.	We	recognize	a	bargain	purchase	gain	within	Other	(expense)	income,	net,	in	the	consolidated	statement	of	operations	if	the	net	fair	value	of
	
the	identifiable	assets	acquired	and	the	liabilities	assumed	is	in	excess	of	the	fair	value	of	the	total	purchase	consideration	and	any	noncontrolling
	
interests.	We	include	the	results	of	operations	of	the	acquired	business	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements	beginning	on	the	acquisition	date.
Cash	and	Cash	Equivalents
All	highly	liquid	investments	with	an	original	maturity	of	three	months	or	less	at	the	date	of	purchase	are	considered	cash	equivalents.	Our	cash
	
equivalents	are	primarily	comprised	of	money	market	funds	and	certificates	of	deposit.
60	
Restricted	Cash
We	maintain	certain	cash	balances	restricted	as	to	withdrawal	or	use.	Our	restricted	cash	is	comprised	primarily	of	cash	held	to	service	certain
	
payments	under	various	secured	debt	facilities.	In	addition,	restricted	cash	includes	cash	held	as	collateral	for	certain	permits	as	well	as	sales	to	lease
	
partners	with	a	resale	value	guarantee,	letters	of	credit,	real	estate	leases,	deposits	held	for	our	insurance	services	and	certain	operating	leases.	We
	
record	restricted	cash	as	other	assets	in	the	consolidated	balance	sheets	and	determine	current	or	non-current	classification	based	on	the	expected
	
duration	of	the	restriction.
Our	total	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	restricted	cash,	as	presented	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	cash	flows,	was	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Cash	and	cash	equivalents
	
$
16,253
	
	
$
17,576
	
	
$
19,384
	
Restricted	cash	included	in	prepaid	expenses	and	other	
			current	assets
	
	
294
	
	
	
345
	
	
	
238
	
Restricted	cash	included	in	other	non-current	assets
	
	
377
	
	
	
223
	
	
	
279
	
Total	as	presented	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	cash	flows
	
$
16,924
	
	
$
18,144
	
	
$
19,901
	
	
Investments
Investments	may	be	comprised	of	a	combination	of	marketable	securities,	including
	
U.S.	government	securities,	corporate	debt	securities,	time
	
deposit,	and	certain	certificates	of	deposit,	which	are	all	designated	as	available-for-sale	and	reported	at	estimated	fair	value,	with	unrealized	gains	and
	
losses	recorded	in	accumulated	other	comprehensive	income	which	is	included	within	stockholders’	equity.	Available-for-sale	marketable	securities	with
	
maturities	greater	than	three	months	at	the	date	of	purchase	are	included	in	short-term	investments	in	our	consolidated	balance	sheets.	Interest,
	
dividends,	amortization	and	accretion	of	purchase	premiums	and	discounts	on	these	investments	are	included	within	Interest	income	in	our
	
consolidated	statements	of	operations.
	
The	cost	of	available-for-sale	investments	sold	is	based	on	the	specific	identification	method.	Realized	gains	and	losses	on	the	sale	of	available-
for-sale	investments	are	recorded	in	Other	(expense)	income,	net.
We	regularly	review	all	of	our	investments	for	declines	in	fair	value.	The	review	includes	but	is	not	limited	to	(i)	the	consideration	of	the	cause	of
	
the	decline,	(ii)	any	currently	recorded	expected	credit	losses	and	(iii)	the	creditworthiness	of	the	respective	security	issuers.	The	amortized	cost	basis
	
of	our	investments	approximates	its	fair	value.
Accounts	Receivable	and	Allowance	for	Doubtful	Accounts
Accounts	receivable	primarily	include	amounts	related	to	receivables	from	financial	institutions	and	leasing	companies	offering	various	financing
	
products	to	our	customers,	sales	of	energy	generation	and	storage	products,	sales	of	regulatory	credits	to	other	automotive	manufacturers	and
	
government	rebates	already	passed	through	to	customers.	We	provide	an	allowance	against	accounts	receivable	for	the	amount	we	expect	to	be
	
uncollectible.	We	write-off	accounts	receivable	against	the	allowance	when	they	are	deemed	uncollectible.
Depending	on	the	day	of	the	week	on	which	the	end	of	a	fiscal	quarter	falls,	our	accounts	receivable	balance	may	fluctuate	as	we	are	waiting	for
	
certain	customer	payments	to	clear	through	our	banking	institutions	and	receipts	of	payments	from	our	financing	partners,	which	can	take	up	to
	
approximately	two	weeks	based	on	the	contractual	payment	terms	with	such	partners.	Our	accounts	receivable	balances	associated	with	our	sales	of
	
regulatory	credits,	which	are	typically	transferred	to	other	manufacturers	during	the	last	few	days	of	the	quarter,	is	dependent	on	contractual	payment
	
terms.	Additionally,	government	rebates	can	take	up	to	a	year	or	more	to	be	collected	depending	on	the	customary	processing	timelines	of	the	specific
	
jurisdictions	issuing	them.	These	various	factors	may	have	a	significant	impact	on	our	accounts	receivable	balance	from	period	to	period.	As	of
	
December	31,	2022	and	December	31,	2021
,	we	had	$
753
	million	and	$
627
	million,	respectively,	of	long-term	government	rebates	receivable	in	Other
	
non-current	assets	in	our	consolidated	balance	sheets.
	
Financing	Receivables
We	provide	financing	options	to	our	customers	for	our	automotive	and	energy	products.
	
Financing	receivables	are	carried	at	amortized	cost,	net
	
of	allowance	for	loan	losses.	Provisions	for	loan	losses	are	charged	to	operations	in	amounts	sufficient	to	maintain	the	allowance	for	loan	losses	at	levels
	
considered	adequate	to	cover	expected	credit	losses	on	the	financing	receivables.	In	determining	expected	credit	losses,	we	consider	our	historical	level
	
of	credit	losses,	current	economic	trends,	and	reasonable	and	supportable	forecasts	that	affect	the	collectability	of	the	future	cash	flows.
	
61	
When	originating	consumer	receivables,	we	review	the	credit	application,	the	proposed	contract	terms,	credit	bureau	information	(e.g.,	FICO
	
score)	and	other	information.	Our	evaluation	emphasizes	the	applicant’s	ability	to	pay	and	creditworthiness	focusing	on	payment,	affordability,	and
	
applicant	credit	history	as	key	considerations.	Generally,	all	customers	in	this	portfolio	have	strong	creditworthiness	at	loan	origination.
After	origination,	we	review	the	credit	quality	of	retail	financing	based	on	customer	payment	activity	and	aging	analysis.	For	all	financing
	
receivables,	we	define	“past	due”	as	any	payment,	including	principal	and	interest,	which	is	at	least	31	days	past	the	contractual	due	date.	As	of
	
December	31,	2022,	the	majority	of	our	financing	receivables	were	at	current	status	with	only	an	immaterial	balance	being	past	due.	Additionally,	as	of
	
December	31,	2022,	the	majority	of	our	financing	receivables,	excluding	MyPower	notes	receivable,	were	originated	in	2022.
We	have	customer	notes	receivable	under	the	legacy	MyPower	loan	program,	which	provided	residential	customers	with	the	option	to	finance	the
	
purchase	of	a	solar	energy	system	through	a	
30
-year	loan	and	were	all	originated	prior	to	year	2018.	The	outstanding	balances,	net	of	any	allowance	for
	
expected	credit	losses,	are	presented	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets	as	a	component	of	Prepaid	expenses	and	other	current	assets	for	the	current
	
portion	and	as	Other	non-current	assets	for	the	long-term	portion.	As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	the	total	outstanding	balance	of	MyPower
	
customer	notes	receivable,	net	of	allowance	for	expected	credit	losses,	was	$
280
	million	and	$
299
	million,	respectively,	of	which	$
7
	million	and	$
11
	
million	were	due	in	the	next	12	months	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	respectively.	As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	the	allowance	for	expected
	
credit	losses	was	$
37
	million	and	$
41
	million,	respectively.
	
Concentration	of	Risk
Credit	Risk
Financial	instruments	that	potentially	subject	us	to	a	concentration	of	credit	risk	consist	of	cash,	cash	equivalents,	investments,	restricted	cash,
	
accounts	receivable	and	other	finance	receivables.	Our	cash	and	investments	balances	are	primarily	on	deposit	at	high	credit	quality	financial
	
institutions	or	invested	in	money	market	funds.	These	deposits	are	typically	in	excess	of	insured	limits.	As	of	December	31,	2022	and	December	31,
	
2021
,	
no
	entity	represented	
10
%	or	more	of	our	total	receivables	balance.
Supply	Risk
We	are	dependent	on	our	suppliers,	including	single	source	suppliers,	and	the	inability	of	these	suppliers	to	deliver	necessary	components	of	our
	
products	in	a	timely	manner	at	prices,	quality	levels	and	volumes	acceptable	to	us,	or	our	inability	to	efficiently	manage	these	components	from	these
	
suppliers,	could	have	a	material	adverse	effect	on	our	business,	prospects,	financial	condition	and	operating	results.
Inventory	Valuation
Inventories	are	stated	at	the	lower	of	cost	or	net	realizable	value.	Cost	is	computed	using	standard	cost	for	vehicles	and	energy	products,	which
	
approximates	actual	cost	on	a	first-in,	first-out	basis.	We	record	inventory	write-downs	for	excess	or	obsolete	inventories	based	upon	assumptions	about
	
current	and	future	demand	forecasts.	If	our	inventory	on-hand	is	in	excess	of	our	future	demand	forecast,	the	excess	amounts	are	written-off.
We	also	review	our	inventory	to	determine	whether	its	carrying	value	exceeds	the	net	amount	realizable	upon	the	ultimate	sale	of	the	inventory.
	
This	requires	us	to	determine	the	estimated	selling	price	of	our	vehicles	less	the	estimated	cost	to	convert	the	inventory	on-hand	into	a	finished	product.
	
Once	inventory	is	written-down,	a	new,	lower	cost	basis	for	that	inventory	is	established	and	subsequent	changes	in	facts	and	circumstances	do	not
	
result	in	the	restoration	or	increase	in	that	newly	established	cost	basis.
Should	our	estimates	of	future	selling	prices	or	production	costs	change,	additional	and	potentially	material	write-downs	may	be	required.	A
	
small	change	in	our	estimates	may	result	in	a	material	charge	to	our	reported	financial	results.
Operating	Lease	Vehicles
Vehicles	that	are	leased	as	part	of	our	direct	vehicle	leasing	program	are	classified	as	operating	lease	vehicles	at	cost	less	accumulated
	
depreciation.	We	generally	depreciate	their	cost,	less	residual	value,	using	the	straight-line-method	to	cost	of	automotive	leasing	revenue	over	the
	
contractual	period.	The	gross	cost	of	operating	lease	vehicles	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	December	31,	2021	was	
$
6.08
	billion	and	
$
5.28
	billion,
	
respectively.	Operating	lease	vehicles	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets	are	presented	net	of	accumulated	depreciation	of	
$
1.04
	billion	and	
$
773
	
million	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	December	31,	2021
,	respectively.
62	
Digital	Assets,	Net
We	currently	account	for	all	digital	assets	held	as	indefinite-lived	intangible	assets	in	accordance	with	ASC	350,	
Intangibles—Goodwill	and	Other
.
	
We	have	ownership	of	and	control	over	our	digital	assets	and	we	may	use	third-party	custodial	services	to	secure	it.	The	digital	assets	are	initially
	
recorded	at	cost	and	are	subsequently	remeasured	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	at	cost,	net	of	any	impairment	losses	incurred	since	acquisition.
We	determine	the	fair	value	of	our	digital	assets	on	a	nonrecurring	basis	in	accordance	with	ASC	820,	
Fair	Value	Measurement	
(“ASC	820”),
	
based	on	quoted	prices	on	the	active	exchange(s)	that	we	have	determined	is	the	principal	market	for	such	assets	(Level	I	inputs).	We	perform	an
	
analysis	each	quarter	to	identify	whether	events	or	changes	in	circumstances,	principally	decreases	in	the	quoted	prices	on	active	exchanges,	indicate
	
that	it	is	more	likely	than	not	that	our	digital	assets	are	impaired.	In	determining	if	an	impairment	has	occurred,	we	consider	the	lowest	market	price	of
	
one	unit	of	digital	asset	quoted	on	the	active	exchange	since	acquiring	the	digital	asset.	When	the	then	current	carrying	value	of	a	digital	asset	exceeds
	
the	fair	value	determined	each	quarter,	an	impairment	loss	has	occurred	with	respect	to	those	digital	assets	in	the	amount	equal	to	the	difference
	
between	their	carrying	values	and	the	prices	determined.
	
Impairment	losses	are	recognized	within	Restructuring	and	other	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	operations	in	the	period	in	which	the
	
impairment	is	identified.	Gains	are	not	recorded	until	realized	upon	sale(s),	at	which	point	they	are	presented	net	of	any	impairment	losses	for	the	same
	
digital	assets	held	within	Restructuring	and	other.	In	determining	the	gain	to	be	recognized	upon	sale,	we	calculate	the	difference	between	the	sales
	
price	and	carrying	value	of	the	digital	assets	sold	immediately	prior	to	sale.
	
See	Note	3,	
Digital	Assets,	Net
,	for	further	information	regarding	digital	assets.
Solar	Energy	Systems,	Net
We	are	the	lessor	of	solar	energy	systems.	Solar	energy	systems	are	stated	at	cost	less	accumulated	depreciation.
Depreciation	and	amortization	is	calculated	using	the	straight-line	method	over	the	estimated	useful	lives	of	the	respective	assets,	as	follows:
	
Solar	energy	systems	in	service
	
		
	
30
	to	
35	years
Initial	direct	costs	related	to	customer	
			solar	energy	system	lease	acquisition
			costs
	
		
	
Lease	term	(up	to	
25	years
)
	
Solar	energy	systems	pending	interconnection	will	be	depreciated	as	solar	energy	systems	in	service	when	they	have	been	interconnected	and
	
placed	in-service.	Solar	energy	systems	under	construction	represents	systems	that	are	under	installation,	which	will	be	depreciated	as	solar	energy
	
systems	in	service	when	they	are	completed,	interconnected	and	placed	in	service.	Initial	direct	costs	related	to	customer	solar	energy	system
	
agreement	acquisition	costs	are	capitalized	and	amortized	over	the	term	of	the	related	customer	agreements.
Property,	Plant	and	Equipment,	Net
Property,	plant	and	equipment,	net,	including	leasehold	improvements,	are	recognized	at	cost	less	accumulated	depreciation.	Depreciation	is
	
generally	computed	using	the	straight-line	method	over	the	estimated	useful	lives	of	the	respective	assets,	as	follows:
	
Machinery,	equipment,	vehicles	and	
			office	furniture
	
		
	
3
	to	
15
	years
Tooling
	
	
	
4
	to	
7
	years
Building	and	building	improvements
	
		
	
15
	to	
30
	years
Computer	equipment	and	software
	
		
	
3
	to	
10
	years
	
Leasehold	improvements	are	depreciated	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	shorter	of	their	estimated	useful	lives	or	the	terms	of	the	related
	
leases.
Upon	the	retirement	or	sale	of	our	property,	plant	and	equipment,	the	cost	and	associated	accumulated	depreciation	are	removed	from	the
	
consolidated	balance	sheet,	and	the	resulting	gain	or	loss	is	reflected	on	the	consolidated	statement	of	operations.	Maintenance	and	repair	expenditures
	
are	expensed	as	incurred	while	major	improvements	that	increase	the	functionality,	output	or	expected	life	of	an	asset	are	capitalized	and	depreciated
	
ratably	over	the	identified	useful	life.
Interest	expense	on	outstanding	debt	is	capitalized	during	the	period	of	significant	capital	asset	construction.	Capitalized	interest	on
	
construction	in	progress	is	included	within	Property,	plant	and	equipment,	net	and	is	amortized	over	the	life	of	the	related	assets.
63	
Long-Lived	Assets	Including	Acquired	Intangible	Assets
We	review	our	property,	plant	and	equipment,	solar	energy	systems,	long-term	prepayments	and	intangible	assets	for	impairment	whenever
	
events	or	changes	in	circumstances	indicate	that	the	carrying	amount	of	an	asset	(or	asset	group)	may	not	be	recoverable.	We	measure	recoverability
	
by	comparing	the	carrying	amount	to	the	future	undiscounted	cash	flows	that	the	asset	is	expected	to	generate.	If	the	asset	is	not	recoverable,	its
	
carrying	amount	would	be	adjusted	down	to	its	fair	value.	For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	we	have	recognized	no	material
	
impairments	of	our	long-lived	assets.
Intangible	assets	with	definite	lives	are	amortized	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	their	estimated	useful	lives,	which	range	from	
three
	to	
thirty
	
years
.
Goodwill
We	assess	goodwill	for	impairment	annually	in	the	fourth	quarter,	or	more	frequently	if	events	or	changes	in	circumstances	indicate	that	it	might
	
be	impaired,	by	comparing	its	carrying	value	to	the	reporting	unit’s	fair	value.	For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021,	and	2020,	we	did	
no
t
	
recognize	any	impairment	of	goodwill.
Capitalization	of	Software	Costs
We	capitalize	costs	incurred	in	the	development	of	internal	use	software,	during	the	application	development	stage	to	Property,	plant	and
	
equipment,	net	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets.	Costs	related	to	preliminary	project	activities	and	post-implementation	activities	are	expensed	as
	
incurred.	Such	costs	are	amortized	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	its	estimated	useful	life	of	
three
	years.
	
Software	development	costs	incurred	in	development	of	software	to	be	sold,	leased,	or	otherwise	marketed,	incurred	subsequent	to	the
	
establishment	of	technological	feasibility	and	prior	to	the	general	availability	of	the	software	are	capitalized	when	they	are	expected	to	become
	
significant.	Such	costs	are	amortized	over	the	estimated	useful	life	of	the	applicable	software	once	it	is	made	generally	available	to	our	customers.
	
We	evaluate	the	useful	lives	of	these	assets	on	an	annual	basis,	and	we	test	for	impairment	whenever	events	or	changes	in	circumstances	occur
	
that	could	impact	the	recoverability	of	these	assets.	
For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021,	and	2020,	we	have	recognized	no	impairments	of
	
capitalized	software	costs.
	
Foreign	Currency
We	determine	the	functional	and	reporting	currency	of	each	of	our	international	subsidiaries	and	their	operating	divisions	based	on	the	primary
	
currency	in	which	they	operate.	In	cases	where	the	functional	currency	is	not	the	U.S.	dollar,	we	recognize	a	cumulative	translation	adjustment	created
	
by	the	different	rates	we	apply	to	current	period	income	or	loss	and	the	balance	sheet.	For	each	subsidiary,	we	apply	the	monthly	average	functional
	
exchange	rate	to	its	monthly	income	or	loss	and	the	month-end	functional	currency	rate	to	translate	the	balance	sheet.
Foreign	currency	transaction	gains	and	losses	are	a	result	of	the	effect	of	exchange	rate	changes	on	transactions	denominated	in	currencies
	
other	than	the	functional	currency.	Transaction	gains	and	losses	are	recognized	in	Other	(expense)	income,	net,	in	the	consolidated	statements	of
	
operations.	For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	we	recorded	a	net	foreign	currency	transaction	loss	of	$
89
	million,	gain	of	$
97
	
million	and	loss	of	$
114
	million,	respectively.
64	
Warranties
We	provide	a	manufacturer’s	warranty	on	all	new	and	used	vehicles	and	
a	warranty	on	the	installation	and	components	of	the	energy	generation
	
and	storage	systems	we	sell	for	periods	typically	between	10	to	25	years
.	We	accrue	a	warranty	reserve	for	the	products	sold	by	us,	which	includes	our
	
best	estimate	of	the	projected	costs	to	repair	or	replace	items	under	warranties	and	recalls	if	identified.	These	estimates	are	based	on	actual	claims
	
incurred	to	date	and	an	estimate	of	the	nature,	frequency	and	costs	of	future	claims.	These	estimates	are	inherently	uncertain	given	our	relatively	short
	
history	of	sales,	and	changes	to	our	historical	or	projected	warranty	experience	may	cause	material	changes	to	the	warranty	reserve	in	the	future.	The
	
warranty	reserve	does	not	include	projected	warranty	costs	associated	with	our	vehicles	subject	to	operating	lease	accounting	and	our	solar	energy
	
systems	under	lease	contracts	or	PPAs,	as	the	costs	to	repair	these	warranty	claims	are	expensed	as	incurred.	The	portion	of	the	warranty	reserve
	
expected	to	be	incurred	within	the	next	12	months	is	included	within	Accrued	liabilities	and	other,	while	the	remaining	balance	is	included	within	Other
	
long-term	liabilities	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets.	Warranty	expense	is	recorded	as	a	component	of	Cost	of	revenues	in	the	consolidated
	
statements	of	operations.	Due	to	the	magnitude	of	our	automotive	business,	accrued	warranty	balance	is	primarily	related	to	our	automotive	segment.
	
Accrued	warranty	activity	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):	
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Accrued	warranty—beginning	of	period
	
$
2,101
	
	
$
1,468
	
	
$
1,089
	
Warranty	costs	incurred
	
	
(
803
)
	
	
(
525
)
	
	
(
312
)
Net	changes	in	liability	for	pre-existing	warranties,
			including	expirations	and	foreign	exchange	impact
	
	
522
	
	
	
102
	
	
	
66
	
Provision	for	warranty
	
	
1,685
	
	
	
1,056
	
	
	
625
	
Accrued	warranty—end	of	period
	
$
3,505
	
	
$
2,101
	
	
$
1,468
	
Customer	Deposits
Customer	deposits	primarily	consist	of	cash	payments	from	customers	at	the	time	they	place	an	order	or	reservation	for	a	vehicle	or	an	energy
	
product	and	any	additional	payments	up	to	the	point	of	delivery	or	the	completion	of	installation.	Customer	deposits	also	include	prepayments	on
	
contracts	that	can	be	cancelled	without	significant	penalties,	such	as	vehicle	maintenance	plans.	Customer	deposit	amounts	vary	depending	on	the
	
vehicle	model,	the	energy	product	and	the	country	of	delivery.	With	the	exception	of	a	nominal	order	fee,	customer	deposits	are	fully	refundable	on
	
vehicles	prior	to	delivery	and	fully	refundable	in	the	case	of	an	energy	generation	or	storage	product	prior	to	the	entry	into	a	purchase	agreement	or	in
	
certain	cases	for	a	limited	time	thereafter	(in	accordance	with	applicable	laws).	Customer	deposits	are	included	in	current	liabilities	until	refunded,
	
forfeited	or	applied	towards	the	customer’s	purchase	balance.
Government	Assistance	Programs	and	Incentives
Globally,	the	operation	of	our	business	is	impacted	by	various	government	programs,	incentives,	and	other	arrangements.	Government	incentives
	
are	recorded	in	our	consolidated	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	their	purpose	as	a	reduction	of	expense,	or	an	offset	to	the	related	capital
	
asset.	The	benefit	is	generally	recorded	when	all	conditions	attached	to	the	incentive	have	been	met	or	are	expected	to	be	met	and	there	is	reasonable
	
assurance	of	their	receipt.	The	government	incentives	received	by	us	are	immaterial	in	all	periods	presented	since	the	adoption	of	ASU	2021-10.
	
Gigafactory	New	York—New	York	State	Investment	and	Lease
We	have	a	lease	through	the	Research	Foundation	for	the	SUNY	Foundation	with	respect	to	Gigafactory	New	York.	Under	the	lease	and	a	related
	
research	and	development	agreement,	we	are	continuing	to	designate	further	buildouts	at	the	facility.	We	are	required	to	comply	with	certain
	
covenants,	including	hiring	and	cumulative	investment	targets.	Under	the	terms	of	the	arrangement,	the	SUNY	Foundation	paid	for	a	majority	of	the
	
construction	costs	related	to	the	manufacturing	facility	and	the	acquisition	and	commissioning	of	certain	manufacturing	equipment;	and	we	are
	
responsible	for	any	construction	or	equipment	costs	in	excess	of	such	amount	(refer	to	Note	15,	
Commitments	and	Contingencies
).	This	incentive
	
reduces	the	related	lease	costs	of	the	facility	within	the	Energy	generation	and	storage	cost	of	revenues	and	operating	expense	line	items	in	our
	
consolidated	statements	of	operations.
65	
Gigafactory	Shanghai—Land	Use	Rights	and	Economic	Benefits
We	have	an	agreement	with	the	local	government	of	Shanghai	for	land	use	rights	at	Gigafactory	Shanghai.	Under	the	terms	of	the	arrangement,
	
we	are	required	to	meet	a	cumulative	capital	expenditure	target	and	an	annual	tax	revenue	target	starting	at	the	end	of	2023.	In	addition,	the	Shanghai
	
government	has	granted	to	our	Gigafactory	Shanghai	subsidiary	certain	incentives	to	be	used	in	connection	with	eligible	capital	investments	at
	
Gigafactory	Shanghai	(refer	to	Note	15,	
Commitments	and	Contingencies
).	For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	received	grant
	
funding	of	$
76
	million	and	$
6
	million,	respectively.	These	incentives	offset	the	related	costs	of	our	facilities	and	are	recorded	as	a	reduction	of	the	cost
	
of	the	capital	investment	within	the	Property,	plant	and	equipment,	net	line	item	in	our	consolidated	balance	sheets.	The	incentive	therefore	reduces	the
	
depreciation	expense	over	the	useful	lives	of	the	related	equipment.
	
Nevada	Tax	Incentives
In	connection	with	the	construction	of	Gigafactory	Nevada,	we	entered	into	agreements	with	the	State	of	Nevada	and	Storey	County	in	Nevada
	
that	provide	abatements	for	specified	taxes,	discounts	to	the	base	tariff	energy	rates	and	transferable	tax	credits	of	up	to	$
195
	million	in	consideration
	
of	capital	investment	and	hiring	targets	that	were	met	at	Gigafactory	Nevada.
Gigafactory	Texas	Tax	Incentives
In	connection	with	the	construction	of	Gigafactory	Texas,	we	entered	into	a	
20
-year	agreement	with	Travis	County	in	Texas	pursuant	to	which	we
	
would	receive	grant	funding	equal	to	
70
-
80
%	of	property	taxes	paid	by	us	to	Travis	County	and	a	separate	
10
-year	agreement	with	the	Del	Valle
	
Independent	School	District	in	Texas	pursuant	to	which	a	portion	of	the	taxable	value	of	our	property	would	be	capped	at	a	specified	amount,	in	each
	
case	subject	to	our	meeting	certain	minimum	economic	development	metrics	through	our	construction	and	operations	at	Gigafactory	Texas.	This
	
incentive	is	recorded	as	a	reduction	of	the	related	expenses	within	the	Cost	of	automotive	revenues	and	operating	expense	line	items	of	our
	
consolidated	statements	of	operations.
Defined	Contribution	Plan
We	have	a	401(k)	savings	plan	in	the	U.S.	that	is	intended	to	qualify	as	a	deferred	salary	arrangement	under	Section	401(k)	of	the	Internal
	
Revenue	Code	and	a	number	of	savings	plans	internationally.	Under	the	401(k)	savings	plan,	participating	employees	may	elect	to	contribute	up	to	
90
%
	
of	their	eligible	compensation,	subject	to	certain	limitations.	Beginning	in	January	2022,	we	began	to	match	
50
%	of	each	employee’s	contributions	up	to
	
a	maximum	of	
6
%	(capped	at	$
3,000
)	of	the	employee’s	eligible	compensation,	vested	upon	one	year	of	service.	We	recognized	$
91
	million	of	expenses
	
related	to	employer	contributions	for	the	401(k)	savings	plan	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022.
Recent	Accounting	Pronouncements
Recently	issued	accounting	pronouncements	not	yet	adopted
In	October	2021,	the	Financial	Accounting	Standards	Board	(“FASB”)	issued	ASU	No.	2021-08,	Accounting	for	Contract	Assets	and	Contract
	
Liabilities	from	Contracts	with	Customers	(Topic	805).	This	ASU	requires	an	acquirer	in	a	business	combination	to	recognize	and	measure	contract
	
assets	and	contract	liabilities	(deferred	revenue)	from	acquired	contracts	using	the	revenue	recognition	guidance	in	Topic	606.	At	the	acquisition	date,
	
the	acquirer	applies	the	revenue	model	as	if	it	had	originated	the	acquired	contracts.	The	ASU	is	effective	for	annual	periods	beginning	after	December
	
15,	2022,	including	interim	periods	within	those	fiscal	years.	Adoption	of	the	ASU	should	be	applied	prospectively.	Early	adoption	is	also	permitted,
	
including	adoption	in	an	interim	period.	If	early	adopted,	the	amendments	are	applied	retrospectively	to	all	business	combinations	for	which	the
	
acquisition	date	occurred	during	the	fiscal	year	of	adoption.	This	ASU	is	currently	not	expected	to	have	a	material	impact	on	our	consolidated	financial
	
statements.
In	March	2022,	the	FASB	issued	ASU	2022-02,	Troubled	Debt	Restructurings	and	Vintage	Disclosures.	This	ASU	eliminates	the	accounting
	
guidance	for	troubled	debt	restructurings	by	creditors	that	have	adopted	ASU	2016-13,	Measurement	of	Credit	Losses	on	Financial	Instruments,	which
	
we	adopted	on	January	1,	2020.	This	ASU	also	enhances	the	disclosure	requirements	for	certain	loan	refinancing	and	restructurings	by	creditors	when	a
	
borrower	is	experiencing	financial	difficulty.	In	addition,	the	ASU	amends	the	guidance	on	vintage	disclosures	to	require	entities	to	disclose	current
	
period	gross	write-offs	by	year	of	origination	for	financing	receivables	and	net	investments	in	leases	within	the	scope	of	ASC	326-20.	The	ASU	is
	
effective	for	annual	periods	beginning	after	December	15,	2022,	including	interim	periods	within	those	fiscal	years.	Adoption	of	the	ASU	would	be
	
applied	prospectively.	Early	adoption	is	also	permitted,	including	adoption	in	an	interim	period.	This	ASU	is	currently	not	expected	to	have	a	material
	
impact	on	our	consolidated	financial	statements.
On	August	16,	2022,	the	IRA	was	enacted	into	law	and	is	effective	for	taxable	years	beginning	after	December	31,	2022.	The	IRA	includes
	
multiple	incentives	to	promote	clean	energy,	electric	vehicles,	battery	and	energy	storage	manufacture	or	purchase,	in	addition	to	a	new	corporate
	
alternative	minimum	tax	of	
15
%	on	adjusted	financial	statement	income	of	corporations	with	profits	greater	than	$
1
	billion.	These	measures	may
	
materially	affect	our	consolidated	financial	statements,	and	we	will	continue	to	evaluate	the	applicability	and	effect	of	the	IRA	as	more	guidance	is
	
issued.
	
66	
Recently	adopted	accounting	pronouncements
In	December	2022,	the	FASB	issued	ASU	No.	2022-06,	Deferral	of	the	Sunset	Date	of	Reference	Rate	Reform	(Topic	848).	Topic	848	provides
	
optional	expedients	and	exceptions	for	applying	GAAP	to	transactions	affected	by	reference	rate	(e.g.,	LIBOR)	reform	if	certain	criteria	are	met,	for	a
	
limited	period	of	time	to	ease	the	potential	burden	in	accounting	for	(or	recognizing	the	effects	of)	reference	rate	reform	on	financial	reporting.	The
	
ASU	deferred	the	sunset	date	of	Topic	848	from	December	31,	2022	to	December	31,	2024.	The	ASU	is	effective	as	of	December	21,	2022	through
	
December	31,	2024.	We	continue	to	evaluate	transactions	or	contract	modifications	occurring	as	a	result	of	reference	rate	reform	and	determine
	
whether	to	apply	the	optional	guidance	on	an	ongoing	basis.	We	adopted	ASU	2022-06	during	2022.	The	ASU	has	not	and	is	currently	not	expected	to
	
have	a	material	impact	on	our	consolidated	financial	statements.
In	November	2021,	the	FASB	issued	ASU	No.	2021-10,	Government	Assistance	(Topic	832).	This	ASU	requires	business	entities	to	disclose
	
information	about	government	assistance	they	receive	if	the	transactions	were	accounted	for	by	analogy	to	either	a	grant	or	a	contribution	accounting
	
model.	The	disclosure	requirements	include	the	nature	of	the	transaction	and	the	related	accounting	policy	used,	the	line	items	on	the	balance	sheets
	
and	statements	of	operations	that	are	affected	and	the	amounts	applicable	to	each	financial	statement	line	item	and	the	significant	terms	and	conditions
	
of	the	transactions.	The	ASU	is	effective	for	annual	periods	beginning	after	December	15,	2021.	The	disclosure	requirements	can	be	applied	either
	
retrospectively	or	prospectively	to	all	transactions	in	the	scope	of	the	amendments	that	are	reflected	in	the	financial	statements	at	the	date	of	initial
	
application	and	new	transactions	that	are	entered	into	after	the	date	of	initial	application.	We	adopted	the	ASU	prospectively	on	January	1,	2022.
	
Adoption	of	this	ASU	did	not	have	a	material	impact	on	our	consolidated	financial	statements.
	
ASU	2020-06
In	August	2020,	the	FASB	issued	ASU	2020-06,	Accounting	for	Convertible	Instruments	and	Contracts	in	an	Entity’s	Own	Equity.	The	ASU
	
simplifies	the	accounting	for	convertible	instruments	by	removing	certain	separation	models	in	ASC	470-20,	Debt—Debt	with	Conversion	and	Other
	
Options,	for	convertible	instruments.	The	ASU	updates	the	guidance	on	certain	embedded	conversion	features	that	are	not	required	to	be	accounted	for
	
as	derivatives	under	Topic	815,	Derivatives	and	Hedging,	or	that	do	not	result	in	substantial	premiums	accounted	for	as	paid-in	capital,	such	that	those
	
features	are	no	longer	required	to	be	separated	from	the	host	contract.	The	convertible	debt	instruments	will	be	accounted	for	as	a	single	liability
	
measured	at	amortized	cost.	This	will	also	result	in	the	interest	expense	recognized	for	convertible	debt	instruments	to	be	typically	closer	to	the	coupon
	
interest	rate	when	applying	the	guidance	in	Topic	835,	Interest.	Further,	the	ASU	made	amendments	to	the	EPS	guidance	in	Topic	260	for	convertible
	
debt	instruments,	the	most	significant	impact	of	which	is	requiring	the	use	of	the	if-converted	method	for	diluted	EPS	calculation,	and	no	longer
	
allowing	the	net	share	settlement	method.	The	ASU	also	made	revisions	to	Topic	815-40,	which	provides	guidance	on	how	an	entity	must	determine
	
whether	a	contract	qualifies	for	a	scope	exception	from	derivative	accounting.	The	amendments	to	Topic	815-40	change	the	scope	of	contracts	that	are
	
recognized	as	assets	or	liabilities.
On	January	1,	2021,	we	adopted	the	ASU	using	the	modified	retrospective	method.	We	recognized	a	cumulative	effect	of	initially	applying	the
	
ASU	as	an	adjustment	to	the	January	1,	2021	opening	balance	of	accumulated	deficit.	Due	to	the	recombination	of	the	equity	conversion	component	of
	
our	convertible	debt	remaining	outstanding,	additional	paid	in	capital	and	convertible	senior	notes	(mezzanine	equity)	were	reduced.	The	removal	of	the
	
remaining	debt	discounts	recorded	for	this	previous	separation	had	the	effect	of	increasing	our	net	debt	balance	and	the	reduction	of	property,	plant
	
and	equipment	was	related	to	previously	capitalized	interest.	The	prior	period	consolidated	financial	statements	have	not	been	retrospectively	adjusted
	
and	continue	to	be	reported	under	the	accounting	standards	in	effect	for	those	periods.
Accordingly,	the	cumulative	effect	of	the	changes	made	on	our	January	1,	2021	consolidated	balance	sheet	for	the	adoption	of	the	ASU	was	as
	
follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Balances	at	
December	31,	2020
	
	
Adjustments	from
Adoption	of	ASU	2020-
06
	
	
Balances	at	
January	1,	2021
	
Assets
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Property,	plant	and	equipment,	net
	
$
12,747
	
	
$
(
45
)
	
$
12,702
	
Liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Current	portion	of	debt	and	finance	leases
	
	
2,132
	
	
	
50
	
	
	
2,182
	
Debt	and	finance	leases,	net	of	current	portion
	
	
9,556
	
	
	
219
	
	
	
9,775
	
Mezzanine	equity
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Convertible	senior	notes
	
	
51
	
	
	
(
51
)
	
	
—
	
Equity
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Additional	paid-in	capital
	
	
27,260
	
	
	
(
474
)
	
	
26,786
	
Accumulated	deficit
	
	
(
5,399
)
	
	
211
	
	
	
(
5,188
)
	
67	
Note	3	–	Digital	Assets,	Net
During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	purchased	and/or	received	an	immaterial	amount	and	
$
1.50
	
billion,	respectively,	of
	
digital	assets.	As	of	December	31,	2022
,	we	have	converted	approximately	
75
%	of	our	purchases	into	fiat	currency.	During	the
	years	ended	December
	
31,	2022	and	2021
,	we	recorded	$
204
	
million	and	
$
101
	million	of	impairment	losses	on	such	digital	assets,	respectively.	During	the	years	ended
	
December	31,	2022	and	2021
,	we	realized	gains	of	$
64
	
million	and	
$
128
	
million,	respectively,	in	connection	with	converting	our	holdings	of	digital
	
assets	into	fiat	currency.	The	gains	are	presented	net	of	impairment	losses	in	Restructuring	and	other	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	operations.	As
	
of	December	31,	2022
	and	2021,	the	carrying	value	of	our	digital	assets	held	was	$
184
	
million	and	
$
1.26
	
billion
,	which	reflects	cumulative	impairments
	
of	$
204
	
million	and	
$
101
	
million,	each	period,	respectively.	The	fair	market	value	of	such	digital	assets	held	as	of	December	31,	2022
	and	2021	was
	
$
191
	
million
	and	$
1.99
	billion,	respectively.
	
Note	4	–	Goodwill	and	Intangible	Assets
Goodwill	decreased	
$
6
	million	within	the	automotive	segment	from	
$
200
	million	as	of	December	31,	2021	to	
$
194
	million
	as	of	December	31,
	
2022.	There	were	
no
	accumulated	impairment	losses	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021.
	
The	net	carrying	value	of	our	intangible	assets	decreased	from	$
257
	million	as	of	December	31,	2021	to	$
215
	million	as	of	December	31,	2022
	
mainly	from	amortization.
Note	5	–	Fair	Value	of	Financial	Instruments
ASC	820	states	that	fair	value	is	an	exit	price,	representing	the	amount	that	would	be	received	to	sell	an	asset	or	paid	to	transfer	a	liability	in	an
	
orderly	transaction	between	market	participants.	As	such,	fair	value	is	a	market-based	measurement	that	should	be	determined	based	on	assumptions
	
that	market	participants	would	use	in	pricing	an	asset	or	a	liability.	The	three-tiered	fair	value	hierarchy,	which	prioritizes	which	inputs	should	be	used
	
in	measuring	fair	value,	is	comprised	of:	(Level	I)	observable	inputs	such	as	quoted	prices	in	active	markets;	(Level	II)	inputs	other	than	quoted	prices	in
	
active	markets	that	are	observable	either	directly	or	indirectly	and	(Level	III)	unobservable	inputs	for	which	there	is	little	or	no	market	data.	The	fair
	
value	hierarchy	requires	the	use	of	observable	market	data	when	available	in	determining	fair	value.
	Our	assets	and	liabilities	that	were	measured	at
	
fair	value	on	a	recurring	basis	were	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,	2022
	
	
December	31,	2021
	
	
	
Fair	Value
	
	
Level	I
	
	
Level	II
	
	
Level	III
	
	
Fair	Value
	
	
Level	I
	
	
Level	II
	
	
Level	III
	
Money	market	funds
	
$
2,188
	
	
$
2,188
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
9,548
	
	
$
9,548
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
—
	
U.S.	government	securities
	
	
894
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
894
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Corporate	debt	securities
	
	
885
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
885
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
131
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
131
	
	
	
—
	
Certificates	of	deposit	and	time
	
deposits
	
	
4,253
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
4,253
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Interest	rate	swap	liabilities
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
31
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
31
	
	
	
—
	
Total
	
$
8,220
	
	
$
2,188
	
	
$
6,032
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
9,710
	
	
$
9,548
	
	
$
162
	
	
$
—
	
	
All	of	our	money	market	funds	were	classified	within	Level	I	of	the	fair	value	hierarchy	because	they	were	valued	using	quoted	prices	in	active
	
markets.	Our	U.S.	government	securities,	certificates	of	deposit,	time	deposits	and	corporate	debt	securities	are	classified	within	Level	II	of	the	fair
	
value	hierarchy	and	the	market	approach	was	used	to	determine	fair	value	of	these	investments.	Our	interest	rate	swaps	were	classified	within	Level	II
	
of	the	fair	value	hierarchy	because	they	were	valued	using	alternative	pricing	sources	or	models	that	utilized	market	observable	inputs,	including
	
current	and	forward	interest	rates.
	
68	
Our	cash,	cash	equivalents	and	investments	classified	by	security	type	as	of	
December	31,	2022	and	2021	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,	2022
	
	
	
Adjusted	Cost
	
	
Gross
	
Unrealized
	
Gains
	
	
Gross
	
Unrealized
	
Losses
	
	
Fair	Value
	
	
Cash	and	Cash
	
Equivalents
	
	
Short-Term
	
Investments
	
Cash
	
$
13,965
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
13,965
	
	
$
13,965
	
	
$
—
	
Money	market	funds
	
	
2,188
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
2,188
	
	
	
2,188
	
	
	
—
	
U.S.	government	securities
	
	
897
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
3
)
	
	
894
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
894
	
Corporate	debt	securities
	
	
907
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
22
)
	
	
885
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
885
	
Certificates	of	deposit	and	time	deposits
	
	
4,252
	
	
	
1
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
4,253
	
	
	
100
	
	
	
4,153
	
Total	cash,	cash	equivalents	and	short-
term	investments
	
$
22,209
	
	
$
1
	
	
$
(
25
)
	
$
22,185
	
	
$
16,253
	
	
$
5,932
	
	
		
	
December	31,	2021
	
	
		
Adjusted	Cost
	
	
Gross
	
Unrealized
	
Gains
	
	
Gross
	
Unrealized
	
Losses
	
	
Fair	Value
	
	
Cash	and	Cash
	
Equivalents
	
	
Short-Term
	
Investments
	
Cash
	
$
8,028
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
8,028
	
	
$
8,028
	
	
$
—
	
Money	market	funds
	
	
9,548
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
9,548
	
	
	
9,548
	
	
	
—
	
Corporate	debt	securities
	
	
132
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
1
)
	
	
131
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
131
	
Total	cash,	cash	equivalents	and	short-
term	investments
	
$
17,708
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
(
1
)
	
$
17,707
	
	
$
17,576
	
	
$
131
	
	
We	record	gross	realized	gains,	losses	and	credit	losses	as	a	component	of	Other	(expense)	income,	net	in	the	consolidated	statements	of
	
operations.	For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	did	not	recognize	any	material	gross	realized	gains,	losses	or	credit	losses.	The
	
ending	allowance	balances	for	credit	losses	were	immaterial	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	December	31,	2021.	We	have	determined	that	the	gross
	
unrealized	losses	on	our	investments	as	of	December	31,	2022	and	December	31,	2021	were	temporary	in	nature.
The	following	table	summarizes	the	fair	value	of	our	investments	by	stated	contractual	maturities	as	of	
December	31,	2022	(in	millions):
	
Due	in	1	year	or	less
	
$
5,135
	
Due	in	1	year	through	5	years
		
	
636
	
Due	in	5	years	through	10	years
		
	
161
	
Total
	
$
5,932
	
Disclosure	of	Fair	Values
Our	financial	instruments	that	are	not	re-measured	at	fair	value	include	accounts	receivable,	financing	receivables,	accounts	payable,	accrued
	
liabilities,	customer	deposits	and	debt.	The	carrying	values	of	these	financial	instruments	approximate	their	fair	values,	other	than	our	
2.375
%
	
Convertible	Senior	Notes	due	in	
2022
	(“2022	Notes”)	and	
2.00
%	Convertible	Senior	Notes	due	in	
2024
	(“2024	Notes”)	(collectively	referred	to	as
	
“Convertible	Senior	Notes”	below).
	
We	estimate	the	fair	value	of	the	Convertible	Senior	Notes	using	commonly	accepted	valuation	methodologies	and	market-based	risk
	
measurements	that	are	indirectly	observable,	such	as	credit	risk	(Level	II).	
The	following	table	presents	the	estimated	fair	values	and	the	carrying
	
values	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,	2022
	
	
December	31,	2021
	
	
	
Carrying	Value
	
	
Fair	Value
	
	
Carrying
	
Value
	
	
Fair	Value
	
Convertible	Senior	Notes	(1)
	
$
37
	
	
$
223
	
	
$
119
	
	
$
2,016
	
	
(1)
The	2022	Notes	were	fully	settled	in	the	first	quarter	of	2022.
	
69	
Note	6	–	Inventory
Our	inventory	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
		
		
	
December	31,
	
		
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
		
2021
	
Raw	materials
	
$
6,137
	
	
$
2,816
	
Work	in	process
	
	
2,385
	
		
	
1,089
	
Finished	goods	(1)
	
	
3,475
	
		
	
1,277
	
Service	parts
	
	
842
	
		
	
575
	
Total
	
$
12,839
	
	
$
5,757
	
	
(1)
Finished	goods	inventory	includes	vehicles	in	transit	to	fulfill	customer	orders,	new	vehicles	available	for	sale,	used	vehicles	and	energy	products
	
available	for	sale.
For	solar	energy	systems,	we	commence	transferring	component	parts	from	inventory	to	construction	in	progress,	a	component	of	solar	energy
	
systems,	once	a	lease	or	PPA	contract	with	a	customer	has	been	executed	and	installation	has	been	initiated.	Additional	costs	incurred	on	the	leased
	
solar	energy	systems,	including	labor	and	overhead,	are	recorded	within	solar	energy	systems	under	construction.
We	write-down	inventory	for	any	excess	or	obsolete	inventories	or	when	we	believe	that	the	net	realizable	value	of	inventories	is	less	than	the
	
carrying	value.	During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020	we	recorded	write-downs	of	
$
144
	million,	
$
106
	million	and	$
145
	million,
	
respectively,	in	Cost	of	revenues	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	operations.
Note	7	–	Solar	Energy	Systems,	Net
Our	solar	energy	systems,	net,	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
		
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Solar	energy	systems	in	service
	
$
6,785
	
	
$
6,809
	
Initial	direct	costs	related	to	customer	solar	energy
			system	lease	acquisition	costs
		
	
104
	
	
	
104
	
	
		
	
6,889
	
	
	
6,913
	
Less:	accumulated	depreciation	and	amortization	(1)
		
	
(
1,418
)
	
	
(
1,187
)
	
		
	
5,471
	
	
	
5,726
	
Solar	energy	systems	under	construction
	
	
2
	
	
	
18
	
Solar	energy	systems	pending	interconnection
	
	
16
	
	
	
21
	
Solar	energy	systems,	net	(2)
	
$
5,489
	
	
$
5,765
	
(1)
Depreciation	and	amortization	expense	during	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020	was	$
235
	million,	$
236
	million	and	$
232
	
million,	respectively.
(2)
As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	there	were	$
802
	million	and	$
1.02
	billion,	respectively,	of	gross	solar	energy	systems	under	lease	pass-
through	fund	arrangements	with	accumulated	depreciation	of	$
148
	million	and	$
165
	million,	respectively.
Note	8	–	Property,	Plant	and	Equipment,	Net
Our	property,	plant	and	equipment,	net,	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Machinery,	equipment,	vehicles	and	office	furniture
	
$
13,558
	
	
$
9,953
	
Tooling
	
	
2,579
	
	
	
2,188
	
Leasehold	improvements
	
	
2,366
	
	
	
1,826
	
Land	and	buildings
	
	
7,751
	
	
	
4,675
	
Computer	equipment,	hardware	and	software
	
	
2,072
	
	
	
1,414
	
Construction	in	progress
	
	
4,263
	
	
	
5,559
	
	
	
	
32,589
	
	
	
25,615
	
Less:	Accumulated	depreciation
	
	
(
9,041
)
	
	
(
6,731
)
Total
	
$
23,548
	
	
$
18,884
	
	
70	
Construction	in	progress	is	primarily	comprised	of	construction	of	Gigafactory	Texas	and	Gigafactory	Berlin-Brandenburg,	and	equipment	and
	
tooling	related	to	the	manufacturing	of	our	products.	Completed	assets	are	transferred	to	their	respective	asset	classes	and	depreciation	begins	when
	
an	asset	is	ready	for	its	intended	use.	Interest	on	outstanding	debt	is	capitalized	during	periods	of	significant	capital	asset	construction	and	amortized
	
over	the	useful	lives	of	the	related	assets.	During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	we	capitalized	interest	of	an	immaterial	amount,
	
$
53
	million
	and	$
48
	million,	respectively.
Depreciation	expense	during	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020	was	
$
2.42
	billion,	
$
1.91
	billion	and	
$
1.57
	billion,	respectively.
Panasonic	has	partnered	with	us	on	Gigafactory	Nevada	with	investments	in	the	production	equipment	that	it	uses	to	manufacture	and	supply	us
	
with	battery	cells.	Under	our	arrangement	with	Panasonic,	we	plan	to	purchase	the	full	output	from	their	production	equipment	at	negotiated	prices.	As
	
the	terms	of	the	arrangement	convey	a	finance	lease	under	ASC	842,	we	account	for	their	production	equipment	as	leased	assets	when	production
	
commences.	We	account	for	each	lease	and	any	non-lease	components	associated	with	that	lease	as	a	single	lease	component	for	all	asset	classes,
	
except	production	equipment	classes	embedded	in	supply	agreements.	This	results	in	us	recording	the	cost	of	their	production	equipment	within
	
Property,	plant	and	equipment,	net,	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets	with	a	corresponding	liability	recorded	to	debt	and	finance	leases.	Depreciation
	
on	Panasonic	production	equipment	is	computed	using	the	units-of-production	method	whereby	capitalized	costs	are	amortized	over	the	total	estimated
	
productive	life	of	the	respective	assets.	As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	had	cumulatively	capitalized	gross	costs	of	
$
2.01
	billion	and	
$
1.98
	
billion
,	respectively,	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets	in	relation	to	the	production	equipment	under	our	Panasonic	arrangement.
	
Note	9	–	Accrued	Liabilities	and	Other
	
Our	accrued	liabilities	and	other	current	liabilities	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Accrued	purchases	(1)
	
$
2,747
	
	
$
2,045
	
Taxes	payable	(2)
	
	
1,235
	
	
	
1,122
	
Payroll	and	related	costs
	
	
1,026
	
	
	
906
	
Accrued	warranty	reserve,	current	portion
	
	
1,025
	
	
	
703
	
Sales	return	reserve,	current	portion
	
	
270
	
	
	
265
	
Operating	lease	liabilities,	current	portion
	
	
485
	
	
	
368
	
Other	current	liabilities
	
	
354
	
	
	
310
	
Total
	
$
7,142
	
	
$
5,719
	
	
(1)
Accrued	purchases	primarily	reflects	receipts	of	goods	and	services	for	which	we	had	not	yet	been	invoiced.	As	we	are	invoiced	for	these	goods
	
and	services,	this	balance	will	reduce	and	accounts	payable	will	increase.	For	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	accrued	purchases	increased
	
as	we	continued	construction	and	expansion	of	our	facilities	and	operations.
(2)
Taxes	payable	includes	value	added	tax,	sales	tax,	property	tax,	use	tax	and	income	tax	payables.
	
Note	10	–	Other	Long-Term	Liabilities
	
Our	other	long-term	liabilities	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Operating	lease	liabilities
	
$
2,164
	
	
$
1,671
	
Accrued	warranty	reserve
	
	
2,480
	
	
	
1,398
	
Sales	return	reserve
	
	
51
	
	
	
133
	
Deferred	tax	liability
	
	
82
	
	
	
24
	
Other	non-current	liabilities
	
	
553
	
	
	
320
	
Total	other	long-term	liabilities
	
$
5,330
	
	
$
3,546
	
	
71	
	
Note	11	–	Debt
	
The	following	is	a	summary	of	our	debt	and	finance	leases	as	of	
December	31,	2022	(in	millions):
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Unpaid
	
	
	
Unused
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Net	Carrying	Value
	
	
	
Principal
	
	
	
Committed
	
	
	
Contractual
	
Contractual
	
	
Current
	
	
	
Long-Term
	
	
	
Balance
	
	
	
Amount	(1)
	
	
	
Interest	Rates
	
Maturity	Date
Recourse	debt:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
2024	Notes
	
$
	
—
	
	
	
$
	
37
	
	
	
$
	
37
	
	
	
$
	
—
	
	
	
2.00
%
	
May	2024
Credit	Agreement
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
2,266
	
	
	
Not	applicable
	
July	2023
Solar	Bonds
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
7
	
	
	
	
	
7
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
4.70
-
5.75
%
	
March	2025
	-	
January	2031
Total	recourse	debt
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
		
	
44
	
	
	
	
	
44
	
	
	
	
	
2,266
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
Non-recourse	debt:
	
	
				
	
	
	
		
				
	
	
	
	
				
	
	
	
	
				
	
	
	
		
	
		
	
Automotive	Asset-backed	Notes
	
	
	
984
	
	
	
	
	
613
	
	
	
	
	
1,603
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
0.36
-
4.64
%
	
December	2023
-
September	2025
Solar	Asset-backed	Notes
	
	
	
4
	
	
	
	
	
13
	
	
	
	
	
17
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
4.80
%
	
December	2026
Cash	Equity	Debt
	
	
	
28
	
	
	
	
	
359
	
	
	
	
	
397
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
5.25
-
5.81
%
	
July	2033
-
January	2035
Automotive	Lease-backed	Credit	Facilities
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
151
	
	
	
Not	applicable
	
September	2024
Total	non-recourse	debt
	
	
	
1,016
	
	
	
	
	
985
	
	
	
	
	
2,017
	
	
	
		
	
151
	
	
	
		
	
		
		
Total	debt
	
	
	
1,016
	
	
	
	
	
1,029
	
	
	
$
	
2,061
	
	
	
$
	
2,417
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Finance	leases
	
	
	
486
	
	
	
	
	
568
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Total	debt	and	finance	leases
	
$
	
1,502
	
	
	
$
	
1,597
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The	following	is	a	summary	of	our	debt	and	finance	leases	as	of	December	31,	2021	(in	millions):
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Unpaid
	
	
	
Unused
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Net	Carrying	Value
	
	
	
Principal
	
	
	
Committed
	
	
	
Contractual
	
Contractual
	
	
Current
	
	
	
Long-Term
	
	
	
Balance
	
	
	
Amount	(1)
	
	
	
Interest	Rates
	
Maturity	Date
Recourse	debt:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
2022	Notes
	
$
	
29
	
	
	
$
	
—
	
	
	
$
	
29
	
	
	
$
	
—
	
	
	
2.375
%
	
March	2022
2024	Notes
	
	
	
1
	
	
	
	
	
89
	
	
	
	
	
91
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
2.00
%
	
May	2024
Credit	Agreement
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
1,250
	
	
	
	
	
1,250
	
	
	
	
	
920
	
	
	
3.25
%
	
July	2023
Solar	Bonds
	
	
0
	
	
	
	
	
7
	
	
	
	
	
7
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
4.00
-
5.75
%
	
January	2022
-
January	2031
Total	recourse	debt
	
	
	
30
	
	
	
	
	
1,346
	
	
	
	
	
1,377
	
	
	
	
	
920
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Non-recourse	debt:
	
	
				
	
	
	
	
				
	
	
	
	
				
	
	
	
	
				
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
Automotive	Asset-backed	Notes
	
	
	
1,007
	
	
	
	
	
1,706
	
	
	
	
	
2,723
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
0.12
-
5.48
%
	
September	2022
-
September	2025
Solar	Asset	and	Loan-backed	Notes
	
	
	
27
	
	
	
	
	
800
	
	
	
	
	
844
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
2.87
-
7.74
%
	
September	2024
-
September	2049
Cash	Equity	Debt
	
	
	
24
	
	
	
	
	
388
	
	
	
	
	
422
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
5.25
-
5.81
%
	
July	2033
-
January	2035
Automotive	Lease-backed	Credit	Facilities
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
167
	
	
	
Not	applicable
	
September	2023
Other	Loans
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
	
	
14
	
	
	
	
	
14
	
	
	
	
	
21
	
	
	
5.10
%
	
February	2033
Total	non-recourse	debt
	
	
	
1,058
	
	
	
	
	
2,908
	
	
	
	
	
4,003
	
	
	
	
	
188
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
		
Total	debt
	
	
	
1,088
	
	
	
	
	
4,254
	
	
	
$
	
5,380
	
	
	
$
	
1,108
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Finance	leases
	
	
	
501
	
	
	
	
	
991
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Total	debt	and	finance	leases
	
$
	
1,589
	
	
	
$
	
5,245
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(1)
There	are	no	restrictions	on	draw-down	or	use	for	general	corporate	purposes	with	respect	to	any	available	committed	funds	under	our	credit
	
facilities,	except	certain	specified	conditions	prior	to	draw-down,	including	pledging	to	our	lenders	sufficient	amounts	of	qualified	receivables,
	
inventories,	leased	vehicles	and	our	interests	in	those	leases	or	various	other	assets	and	as	may	be	described	below.
Recourse	debt	refers	to	debt	that	is	recourse	to	our	general	assets.	Non-recourse	debt	refers	to	debt	that	is	recourse	to	only	assets	of	our
	
subsidiaries.	The	differences	between	the	unpaid	principal	balances	and	the	net	carrying	values	are	due	to	debt	discounts	or	deferred	financing	costs.
	
As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	were	in	material	compliance	with	all	financial	debt	covenants.
2022	Notes,	Bond	Hedges	and	Warrant	Transactions
During	the	first	quarter	of	2022,	the	remaining	$
29
	million	in	aggregate	principal	amount	of	the	2022	Notes	was	converted	and	settled	in	cash
	
for	their	par	amount,	and	
1.2
	million	shares	of	our	common	stock	were	issued	for	the	applicable	conversion	premium,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the
	
2022	Stock	Split.	The	note	hedges	we	entered	into	in	connection	with	the	issuance	of	the	2022	Notes	were	automatically	settled	with	the	respective
	
conversions	of	the	2022	Notes,	resulting	in	the	receipt	of	
1.2
	million	shares	of	our	common	stock	during	the	same	period,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to
	
the	2022	Stock	Split.	Additionally,	during	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	we	fully	settled	the	warrants	entered	into	in	connection	with	the	issuance
	
of	the	2022	Notes,	resulting	in	the	issuance	of	
37.0
	million	shares	of	our	common	stock,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.
2024	Notes,	Bond	Hedges	and	Warrant	Transactions
In	May	2019,	we	issued	$
1.84
	billion	in	aggregate	principal	amount	of	our	2024	Notes	in	a	public	offering.	The	net	proceeds	from	the	issuance,
	
after	deducting	transaction	costs,	were	$
1.82
	billion.
72	
As	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split,	each	$
1,000
	of	principal	of	the	2024	Notes	is	now	convertible	into	
48.4140
	shares	of	our
	
common	stock,	which	is	equivalent	to	a	conversion	price	of	approximately	$
20.66
	per	share,	subject	to	adjustment	upon	the	occurrence	of	specified
	
events.	Holders	of	the	2024	Notes	may	convert,	at	their	option,	on	or	after	February	15,	2024.	Further,	holders	of	the	2024	Notes	may	convert,	at	their
	
option,	prior	to	February	15,	2024	only	under	the	following	circumstances:	(1)	during	any	calendar	quarter	commencing	after	September	30,	2019	(and
	
only	during	such	calendar	quarter),	if	the	last	reported	sale	price	of	our	common	stock	for	at	least	
20
	trading	days	(whether	or	not	consecutive)	during	a
	
period	of	
30
	consecutive	trading	days	ending	on	the	last	trading	day	of	immediately	preceding	calendar	quarter	is	greater	than	or	equal	to	
130
%	of	the
	
conversion	price	on	each	trading	day;	(2)	during	the	
five
-business	day	period	after	any	five-consecutive	trading	day	period	in	which	the	trading	price	per
	
$1,000	principal	amount	of	the	2024	Notes	for	each	trading	day	of	such	period	is	less	than	
98
%	of	the	product	of	the	last	reported	sale	price	of	our
	
common	stock	and	the	conversion	rate	on	each	such	trading	day,	or	(3)	if	specified	corporate	events	occur.	Upon	conversion,	the	2024	Notes	will	be
	
settled	in	cash,	shares	of	our	common	stock	or	a	combination	thereof,	at	our	election.	If	a	fundamental	change	occurs	prior	to	the	maturity	date,	holders
	
of	the	2024	Notes	may	require	us	to	repurchase	all	or	a	portion	of	their	2024	Notes	for	cash	at	a	repurchase	price	equal	to	
100
%	of	the	principal
	
amount	plus	any	accrued	and	unpaid	interest.	In	addition,	if	specific	corporate	events	occur	prior	to	the	maturity	date,	we	would	increase	the
	
conversion	rate	for	a	holder	who	elects	to	convert	its	2024	Notes	in	connection	with	such	an	event	in	certain	circumstances.	Early	conversion	of	notes
	
which	are	scheduled	to	settle	in	the	following	quarter	are	classified	as	current	in	our	consolidated	balance	sheets.
In	connection	with	the	offering	of	the	2024	Notes,	we	entered	into	convertible	note	hedge	transactions	whereby	we	had	the	option	to	purchase
	
89.1
	million	shares	of	our	common	stock	at	a	price	of	approximately	$
20.66
	per	share,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	The	cost	of	the
	
convertible	note	hedge	transactions	was	$
476
	million.	In	addition,	we	sold	warrants	whereby	the	holders	of	the	warrants	had	the	option	to	purchase
	
89.1
	million	shares	of	our	common	stock	at	a	price	of	approximately	$
40.50
	per	share,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	We	received
	
$
174
	million	in	cash	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	these	warrants.	Taken	together,	the	purchase	of	the	convertible	note	hedges	and	the	sale	of	the	warrants
	
were	intended	to	effectively	increase	the	overall	conversion	price	from	approximately	$
20.66
	to	approximately	$
40.50
	per	share.	As	these	transactions
	
meet	certain	accounting	criteria,	the	convertible	note	hedges	and	warrants	were	recorded	in	stockholders’	equity	and	were	not	accounted	for	as
	
derivatives.	The	net	cost	incurred	in	connection	with	the	convertible	note	hedge	and	warrant	transactions	was	recorded	as	a	reduction	to	additional
	
paid-in	capital	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheet.
	
The	closing	price	of	our	common	stock	exceeded	130%	of	the	applicable	conversion	price	on	at	least	20	of	the	last	30	consecutive	trading	days	of
	
each	quarter	in	2022,	causing	the	2024	Notes	to	be	convertible	by	their	holders	in	the	subsequent	quarter.	
During	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,
	
$
54
	million	in	aggregate	principal	amount	of	the	2024	Notes	was	converted	and	settled	in	cash	for	their	par	amount,	and	
2.4
	million	shares	of	our
	
common	stock	were	issued	for	the	applicable	conversion	premium,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	The	note	hedges	we	entered	into	in
	
connection	with	the	issuance	of	the	2024	Notes	were	automatically	settled	with	the	respective	conversions	of	the	2024	Notes,	resulting	in	the	receipt	of
	
2.4
	million	shares	of	our	common	stock	during	the	same	period,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split
.	
As	of	December	31,	2022,	the	if-
converted	value	of	the	notes	exceeds	the	outstanding	principal	amount	by	$
186
	million.
Credit	Agreement
In	June	2015,	we	entered	into	a	senior	asset-based	revolving	credit	agreement	(as	amended	from	time	to	time,	the	“Credit	Agreement”)	with	a
	
syndicate	of	banks.	Borrowed	funds	bear	interest,	at	our	option,	at	an	annual	rate	of	(a)	
1
%	plus	LIBOR	or	(b)	the	highest	of	(i)	the	federal	funds	rate
	
plus	
0.50
%,	(ii)	the	lenders’	“prime	rate”	or	(iii)	1%	plus	LIBOR.	The	fee	for	undrawn	amounts	is	
0.25
%	per	annum.	The	Credit	Agreement	is	secured	by
	
certain	of	our	accounts	receivable,	inventory	and	equipment.	Availability	under	the	Credit	Agreement	is	based	on	the	value	of	such	assets,	as	reduced
	
by	certain	reserves.
In	January	2023,	we	entered	into	a	
5
-year	senior	unsecured	revolving	credit	facility	(the	“RCF	Credit	Agreement”)	with	a	syndicate	of	banks	to
	
replace	the	existing	Credit	Agreement,	which	was	terminated.	The	RCF	Credit	Agreement	contains	two	optional	one-year	extensions	and	has	a	total
	
commitment	of	up	to	$
5.00
	billion,	which	could	be	increased	up	to	$
7.00
	billion	under	certain	circumstances.	The	underlying	borrowings	may	be	used
	
for	general	corporate	purposes.	Borrowed	funds	accrue	interest	at	a	variable	rate	equal	to:	(i)	for	dollar-denominated	loans,	at	our	election,	(a)	Term
	
SOFR	(the	forward-looking	secured	overnight	financing	rate)	plus	
0.10
%,	or	(b)	an	alternate	base	rate;	(ii)	for	loans	denominated	in	pounds	sterling,
	
SONIA	(the	sterling	overnight	index	average	reference	rate);	or	(iii)	for	loans	denominated	in	euros,	an	adjusted	EURIBOR	(euro	interbank	offered	rate);
	
in	each	case,	plus	an	applicable	margin.	The	applicable	margin	will	be	based	on	the	rating	assigned	to	our	senior,	unsecured	long-term	indebtedness
	
(the	“Credit	Rating”)	from	time	to	time.	The	fee	for	undrawn	amounts	is	variable	based	on	the	Credit	Rating	and	is	currently	
0.15
%	per	annum.
73	
Automotive	Asset-backed	Notes
From	time	to	time,	we	transfer	receivables	or	beneficial	interests	related	to	certain	leased	vehicles	into	special	purpose	entities	(“SPEs”)	and
	
issue	Automotive	Asset-backed	Notes,	backed	by	these	automotive	assets	to	investors.	The	SPEs	are	consolidated	in	the	financial	statements.	The	cash
	
flows	generated	by	these	automotive	assets	are	used	to	service	the	principal	and	interest	payments	on	the	Automotive	Asset-backed	Notes	and	satisfy
	
the	SPEs’	expenses,	and	any	remaining	cash	is	distributed	to	the	owners	of	the	SPEs.	We	recognize	revenue	earned	from	the	associated	customer	lease
	
contracts	in	accordance	with	our	revenue	recognition	policy.	The	SPEs’	assets	and	cash	flows	are	not	available	to	our	other	creditors,	and	the	creditors
	
of	the	SPEs,	including	the	Automotive	Asset-backed	Note	holders,	have	no	recourse	to	our	other	assets.
	
Solar	Asset	and	Loan-backed	Notes
Our	subsidiaries	pooled	and	transferred	qualifying	solar	energy	systems	and	the	associated	customer	contracts,	our	interests	in	certain	financing
	
funds	or	certain	MyPower	customer	notes	receivable	into	SPEs	and	issued	Solar	Asset	and	Loan-backed	Notes	backed	by	these	solar	assets,	interests	to
	
investors	or	MyPower	customer	notes	receivable
.	The	SPEs	are	wholly	owned	by	us	and	are	consolidated	in	the	financial	statements.	The	cash	flows
	
generated	by	these	solar	assets	and	notes	receivable,	or	distributed	by	the	underlying	financing	funds	to	certain	SPEs	are	used	to	service	the	principal
	
and	interest	payments	on	the	Solar	Asset	and	Loan-backed	Notes	and	satisfy	the	SPEs’	expenses,	and	any	remaining	cash	is	distributed	to	us.	The	SPEs’
	
assets	and	cash	flows	are	not	available	to	our	other	creditors,	and	the	creditors	of	the	SPEs,	including	the	Solar	Asset	and	Loan-backed	Note	holders,
	
have	no	recourse	to	our	other	assets.	We	contracted	with	certain	SPEs	to	provide	operations	&	maintenance	and	administrative	services	for	the	solar
	
energy	systems.	As	of	December	31,	2022,	solar	assets	pledged	as	collateral	for	Solar	Asset	and	Loan-backed	Notes	had	a	carrying	value	of	$
69
	million
	
and	are	included	within	Solar	energy	systems,	net,	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheet.
During	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	
we	early	repaid	$
819
	million	in	aggregate	principal	of	the	Solar	Asset	and	Loan-backed	Notes	and
	
recorded	an	extinguishment	of	debt	charge	of	$
24
	million	related	to	the	early	repayments	in	Interest	expense	in	the	consolidated	statement	of
	
operations.
Cash	Equity	Debt
	
In	connection	with	the	cash	equity	financing	deals	closed	in	2016,	our	subsidiaries	issued	$
502
	million	in	aggregate	principal	amount	of	debt	that
	
bears	interest	at	fixed	rates.	This	debt	is	secured	by,	among	other	things,	our	interests	in	certain	financing	funds	and	is	non-recourse	to	our	other
	
assets.
Automotive	Lease-backed	Credit	Facilities
	
Our	subsidiaries	have	entered	into	various	credit	agreements	for	borrowings	secured	by	our	interests	in	certain	vehicle	leases.	These	facilities
	
are	non-recourse	to	our	other	assets.
Pledged	Assets
As	of	December	31,	2022	and	2021,	we	had	pledged	or	restricted	$
2.02
	billion	and	$
5.25
	billion	of	our	assets	(consisting	principally	of	restricted
	
cash,	receivables,	inventory,	solar	energy	systems,	operating	lease	vehicles,	property	and	equipment	and	equity	interests	in	certain	SPEs)	as	collateral
	
for	our	outstanding	debt.
Schedule	of	Principal	Maturities	of	Debt
The	future	scheduled	principal	maturities	of	debt	as	of	December	31,	2022	were	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
		
Recourse	debt
	
	
Non-recourse	debt
	
	
Total
	
2023
		
$
0
	
	
$
1,020
	
	
$
1,020
	
2024
		
	
37
	
	
	
648
	
	
	
685
	
2025
		
	
4
	
	
	
35
	
	
	
39
	
2026
		
	
0
	
	
	
35
	
	
	
35
	
2027
	
	
—
	
	
	
25
	
	
	
25
	
Thereafter
	
	
3
	
	
	
254
	
	
	
257
	
Total
		
$
44
	
	
$
2,017
	
	
$
2,061
	
	
Note	12	–	Leases
We	have	entered	into	various	operating	and	finance	lease	agreements	for	certain	of	our	offices,	manufacturing	and	warehouse	facilities,	retail
	
and	service	locations,	equipment,	vehicles,	and	solar	energy	systems,	worldwide.	We	determine	if	an	arrangement	is	a	lease,	or	contains	a	lease,	at
	
inception	and	record	the	leases	in	our	financial	statements	upon	lease	commencement,	which	is	the	date	when	the	underlying	asset	is	made	available
	
for	use	by	the	lessor.
	
74	
We	have	lease	agreements	with	lease	and	non-lease	components,	and	have	elected	to	utilize	the	practical	expedient	to	account	for	lease	and	non-
lease	components	together	as	a	single	combined	lease	component,	from	both	a	lessee	and	lessor	perspective	with	the	exception	of	direct	sales-type
	
leases	and	production	equipment	classes	embedded	in	supply	agreements.	From	a	lessor	perspective,	the	timing	and	pattern	of	transfer	are	the	same
	
for	the	non-lease	components	and	associated	lease	component	and,	the	lease	component,	if	accounted	for	separately,	would	be	classified	as	an
	
operating	lease.
We	have	elected	not	to	present	short-term	leases	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	as	these	leases	have	a	lease	term	of	12	months	or	less	at
	
lease	inception	and	do	not	contain	purchase	options	or	renewal	terms	that	we	are	reasonably	certain	to	exercise.	All	other	lease	assets	and	lease
	
liabilities	are	recognized	based	on	the	present	value	of	lease	payments	over	the	lease	term	at	commencement	date.	Because	most	of	our	leases	do	not
	
provide	an	implicit	rate	of	return,	we	used	our	incremental	borrowing	rate	based	on	the	information	available	at	lease	commencement	date	in
	
determining	the	present	value	of	lease	payments.
Our	leases,	where	we	are	the	lessee,	often	include	options	to	extend	the	lease	term	for	up	to	
10	years
.	Some	of	our	leases	also	include	options	to
	
terminate	the	lease	prior	to	the	end	of	the	agreed	upon	lease	term.	For	purposes	of	calculating	lease	liabilities,	lease	terms	include	options	to	extend	or
	
terminate	the	lease	when	it	is	reasonably	certain	that	we	will	exercise	such	options.
	
Lease	expense	for	operating	leases	is	recognized	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	lease	term	as	cost	of	revenues	or	operating	expenses	depending
	
on	the	nature	of	the	leased	asset.	Certain	operating	leases	provide	for	annual	increases	to	lease	payments	based	on	an	index	or	rate.	We	calculate	the
	
present	value	of	future	lease	payments	based	on	the	index	or	rate	at	the	lease	commencement	date	for	new	leases.	Differences	between	the	calculated
	
lease	payment	and	actual	payment	are	expensed	as	incurred.	Amortization	of	finance	lease	assets	is	recognized	over	the	lease	term	as	cost	of	revenues
	
or	operating	expenses	depending	on	the	nature	of	the	leased	asset.	Interest	expense	on	finance	lease	liabilities	is	recognized	over	the	lease	term	within
	
Interest	expense	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	operations.
	
The	balances	for	the	operating	and	finance	leases	where	we	are	the	lessee	are	presented	as	follows	(in	millions)	within	our	consolidated	balance
	
sheets:
	
	
	
December	31,	2022
	
	
December	31,	2021
	
Operating	leases:
	
	
	
	
	
	
Operating	lease	right-of-use	assets
	
$
2,563
	
	
$
2,016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Accrued	liabilities	and	other
	
$
485
	
	
$
368
	
Other	long-term	liabilities
	
	
2,164
	
	
	
1,671
	
Total	operating	lease	liabilities
	
$
2,649
	
	
$
2,039
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Finance	leases:
	
	
	
	
	
	
Solar	energy	systems,	net
	
$
25
	
	
$
27
	
Property,	plant	and	equipment,	net
	
	
1,094
	
	
	
1,536
	
Total	finance	lease	assets
	
$
1,119
	
	
$
1,563
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Current	portion	of	long-term	debt	and	finance	leases
	
$
486
	
	
$
501
	
Long-term	debt	and	finance	leases,	net	of	current	portion
	
	
568
	
	
	
991
	
Total	finance	lease	liabilities
	
$
1,054
	
	
$
1,492
	
	
The	components	of	lease	expense	are	as	follows	(in	millions)	within	our	consolidated	statements	of	operations:
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Operating	lease	expense:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Operating	lease	expense	(1)
	
$
798
	
	
$
627
	
	
$
451
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Finance	lease	expense:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Amortization	of	leased	assets
	
$
493
	
	
$
415
	
	
$
348
	
Interest	on	lease	liabilities
	
	
72
	
	
	
89
	
	
	
100
	
Total	finance	lease	expense
	
$
565
	
	
$
504
	
	
$
448
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Total	lease	expense
	
$
1,363
	
	
$
1,131
	
	
$
899
	
(1)
Includes	short-term	leases	and	variable	lease	costs,	which	are	immaterial.
75	
Other	information	related	to	leases	where	we	are	the	lessee	is	as	follows:
	
	
	
December	31,	2022
	
	
December	31,	2021
	
Weighted-average	remaining	lease	term:
	
	
	
	
	
	
Operating	leases
	
6.4
	years
	
	
6.5
	years
	
Finance	leases
	
3.1
	years
	
	
4.2
	years
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Weighted-average	discount	rate:
	
	
	
	
	
	
Operating	leases
	
	
5.3
%
	
	
5.0
%
Finance	leases
	
	
5.7
%
	
	
5.8
%
	
Supplemental	cash	flow	information	related	to	leases	where	we	are	the	lessee	is	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Cash	paid	for	amounts	included	in	the	measurement	of	lease	liabilities:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Operating	cash	outflows	from	operating	leases
	
$
754
	
	
$
616
	
	
$
456
	
Operating	cash	outflows	from	finance	leases	(interest	payments)
	
$
75
	
	
$
89
	
	
$
100
	
Financing	cash	outflows	from	finance	leases
	
$
502
	
	
$
439
	
	
$
338
	
Leased	assets	obtained	in	exchange	for	finance	lease	liabilities
	
$
58
	
	
$
486
	
	
$
188
	
Leased	assets	obtained	in	exchange	for	operating	lease	liabilities
	
$
1,059
	
	
$
818
	
	
$
553
	
	
As	of	
December	31,	2022,	the	maturities	of	our	operating	and	finance	lease	liabilities	(excluding	short-term	leases)	are	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Operating
	
	
Finance
	
	
	
Leases
	
	
Leases
	
2023
	
$
610
	
	
$
534
	
2024
	
	
558
	
	
	
387
	
2025
	
	
490
	
	
	
122
	
2026
	
	
383
	
	
	
52
	
2027
	
	
300
	
	
	
31
	
Thereafter
	
	
805
	
	
	
4
	
Total	minimum	lease	payments
	
	
3,146
	
	
	
1,130
	
Less:	Interest
	
	
497
	
	
	
76
	
Present	value	of	lease	obligations
	
	
2,649
	
	
	
1,054
	
Less:	Current	portion
	
	
485
	
	
	
486
	
Long-term	portion	of	lease	obligations
	
$
2,164
	
	
$
568
	
	
As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	have	excluded	from	the	table	above	additional	operating	leases	that	have	not	yet	commenced	with	aggregate	rent
	
payments	of	$
901
	million.	These	operating	leases	will	commence	between	fiscal	year	2023	and	2024	with	lease	terms	of	
2	
years	to	
15	
years.
	
76	
Operating	Lease	and	Sales-type	Lease	Receivables
We	are	the	lessor	of	certain	vehicle	and	solar	energy	system	arrangements	as	described	in	Note	2,	
Summary	of	Significant	Accounting	Policies
.
	
As	of	December	31,	2022,	maturities	of	our	operating	lease	and	sales-type	lease	receivables	from	customers	for	each	of	the	next	five	years	and
	
thereafter	were	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Operating
	
	
Sales-type
	
	
	
Leases
	
	
Leases
	
2023
	
$
1,212
	
	
$
202
	
2024
	
	
900
	
	
	
208
	
2025
	
	
463
	
	
	
192
	
2026
	
	
215
	
	
	
174
	
2027
	
	
194
	
	
	
49
	
Thereafter
	
	
1,697
	
	
	
12
	
Gross	lease	receivables
	
$
4,681
	
	
$
837
	
	
The	above	table	does	not	include	vehicle	sales	to	customers	or	leasing	partners	with	a	resale	value	guarantee	as	the	cash	payments	were
	
received	upfront.	For	our	solar	PPA	arrangements,	customers	are	charged	solely	based	on	actual	power	produced	by	the	installed	solar	energy	system
	
at	a	predefined	rate	per	kilowatt-hour	of	power	produced.	The	future	payments	from	such	arrangements	are	not	included	in	the	above	table	as	they	are
	
a	function	of	the	power	generated	by	the	related	solar	energy	systems	in	the	future.
	
	
Net	Investment	in	Sales-type	Leases
Net	investment	in	sales-type	leases,	which	is	the	sum	of	the	present	value	of	the	future	contractual	lease	payments,	is	presented	on	the
	
consolidated	balance	sheets	as	a	component	of	Prepaid	expenses	and	other	current	assets	for	the	current	portion	and	as	Other	non-current	assets	for
	
the	long-term	portion.	Lease	receivables	relating	to	sales-type	leases	are	presented	on	the	consolidated	balance	sheets	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
		
December	31,	2022
	
	
December	31,	2021
	
Gross	lease	receivables
		
$
837
	
	
$
427
	
Unearned	interest	income
		
	
(
95
)
	
	
(
50
)
Allowance	for	expected	credit	losses
	
	
(
4
)
	
	
(
1
)
Net	investment	in	sales-type	leases
		
$
738
	
	
$
376
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Reported	as:
		
	
	
	
	
	
Prepaid	expenses	and	other	current	assets
	
$
164
	
	
$
73
	
Other	non-current	assets
	
	
574
	
	
	
303
	
Net	investment	in	sales-type	leases
		
$
738
	
	
$
376
	
	
Lease	Pass-Through	Financing	Obligation
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	we	have	
six
	transactions	referred	to	as	“lease	pass-through	fund	arrangements.”	Under	these	arrangements,	our
	
wholly	owned	subsidiaries	finance	the	cost	of	solar	energy	systems	with	investors	through	arrangements	contractually	structured	as	master	leases	for
	
an	initial	term	ranging	between	
10
	and	
25	years
.	These	solar	energy	systems	are	subject	to	lease	or	PPAs	with	customers	with	an	initial	term	not
	
exceeding	
25	years
.
Under	a	lease	pass-through	fund	arrangement,	the	investor	makes	a	large	upfront	payment	to	the	lessor,	which	is	one	of	our	subsidiaries,	and	in
	
some	cases,	subsequent	periodic	payments.	
As	of	
December	31,	2022,	the	future	minimum	master	lease	payments	to	be	received	from	investors,	for
	
each	of	the	next	five	years	and	thereafter,	were	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
2023
	
$
26
	
2024
	
	
18
	
2025
	
	
27
	
2026
	
	
28
	
2027
	
	
29
	
Thereafter
	
	
366
	
Total
	
$
494
	
	
77	
Note	13	–	Equity	Incentive	Plans
In	June	2019,	we	adopted	the	2019	Equity	Incentive	Plan	(the	“2019	Plan”).	The	2019	Plan	provides	for	the	grant	of	stock	options,	restricted
	
stock,	RSUs,	stock	appreciation	rights,	performance	units	and	performance	shares	to	our	employees,	directors	and	consultants.	Stock	options	granted
	
under	the	2019	Plan	may	be	either	incentive	stock	options	or	nonstatutory	stock	options.	Incentive	stock	options	may	only	be	granted	to	our	employees.
	
Nonstatutory	stock	options	may	be	granted	to	our	employees,	directors	and	consultants.	Generally,	our	stock	options	and	RSUs	vest	over	
four	years
	and
	
our	stock	options	are	exercisable	over	a	maximum	period	of	
10	years
	from	their	grant	dates.	Vesting	typically	terminates	when	the	employment	or
	
consulting	relationship	ends.
As	of	December	31,	2022,	
148.0
	million	shares	were	reserved	and	available	for	issuance	under	the	2019	Plan,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the
	
2022	Stock	Split.
The	following	table	summarizes	our	stock	option	and	RSU	activity	for	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022:
	
	
	
Stock	Options
	
	
RSUs
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Weighted-
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Weighted-
	
	
	
	
	
	
Weighted-
	
	
Average
	
	
Aggregate
	
	
	
	
	
Average
	
	
	
Number	of
	
	
Average
	
	
Remaining
	
	
Intrinsic
	
	
Number
	
	
Grant
	
	
	
Options
	
	
Exercise
	
	
Contractual
	
	
Value
	
	
of	RSUs
	
	
Date	Fair
	
	
	
(in
	
thousands)
	
	
Price
	
	
Life	(years)
	
	
(in
	
billions)
	
	
(in
	
thousands)
	
	
Value
	
Beginning	of	period	(1)
	
	
357,120
	
	
$
28.15
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
34,312
	
	
$
88.23
	
Granted
	
	
4,120
	
	
$
226.53
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
8,714
	
	
$
239.85
	
Exercised	or	released
	
	
(
7,971
)
	
$
27.96
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(
17,702
)
	
$
61.74
	
Cancelled
	
	
(
9,705
)
	
$
24.25
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(
3,991
)
	
$
140.68
	
End	of	period
	
	
343,564
	
	
$
30.65
	
	
5.19
	
	
$
32.79
	
	
	
21,333
	
	
$
162.32
	
Vested	and	expected	
			to	vest,	December	31,	2022
	
	
343,105
	
	
$
30.61
	
	
	
5.19
	
	
$
32.75
	
	
	
21,323
	
	
$
162.33
	
Exercisable	and	vested,
			December	31,	2022	(2)
	
	
304,862
	
	
$
25.68
	
	
	
5.08
	
	
$
29.93
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(1)
Prior	period	results	have	been	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	See	Note	1,	
Overview
,	for	details.
(2)
Tranche	12	of	the	2018	CEO	Performance	Award,	which	represents	
25.3
	million	stock	options,	was	achieved	in	the	fourth	quarter	of	2022	and
	
will	vest	upon	expected	certification	following	the	filing	of	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
	
The	weighted-average	grant	date	fair	value	of	RSUs	granted	in	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020	was	$
239.85
,	$
261.33
	and
	
$
100.17
,	respectively,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	The	aggregate	release	date	fair	value	of	RSUs	in	the	years	ended	December	31,
	
2022,	2021	and	2020	was	$
4.32
	billion,	$
5.70
	billion	and	$
3.25
	billion,	respectively.
The	aggregate	intrinsic	value	of	options	exercised	in	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021,	and	2020	was	$
1.90
	billion,	$
26.88
	billion	and
	
$
1.55
	billion,	respectively.	During	the	year	ended	December	31,	2021,	our	CEO	exercised	all	of	the	remaining	vested	options	from	the	2012	CEO
	
Performance	Award,	which	amounted	to	an	intrinsic	value	of	$
23.45
	billion.
ESPP
Our	employees	are	eligible	to	purchase	our	common	stock	through	payroll	deductions	of	up	to	
15
%	of	their	eligible	compensation,	subject	to	any
	
plan	limitations.	The	purchase	price	would	be	
85
%	of	the	lower	of	the	fair	market	value	on	the	first	and	last	trading	days	of	each	six-month	offering
	
period.	During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	under	the	ESPP	we	issued	
1.4
	million,	
1.5
	million	and	
5.5
	million	shares,
	
respectively,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	As	of	December	31,	2022,	there	were	
99.9
	million	shares	available	for	issuance	under	the
	
ESPP,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.
78	
Fair	Value	Assumptions
We	use	the	fair	value	method	in	recognizing	stock-based	compensation	expense.	Under	the	fair	value	method,	we	estimate	the	fair	value	of	each
	
stock	option	award	with	service	or	service	and	performance	conditions	and	the	ESPP	on	the	grant	date	generally	using	the	Black-Scholes	option	pricing
	
model.	
The	weighted-average	assumptions	used	in	the	Black-Scholes	model	for	stock	options	are	as	follows:
	
		
		
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
		
		
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Risk-free	interest	rate
		
	
3.11
%
	
	
0.66
%
	
	
0.26
%
Expected	term	(in	years)
		
	
4.1
	
	
	
4.3
	
	
	
3.9
	
Expected	volatility
		
	
63
%
	
	
59
%
	
	
69
%
Dividend	yield
		
	
0.0
%
	
	
0.0
%
	
	
0.0
%
Grant	date	fair	value	per	share	(1)
	
$
114.51
	
	
$
128.02
	
	
$
72.05
	
	
(1)
Prior	period	results	have	been	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	See	Note	1,	
Overview
,	for	details.
	
The	fair	value	of	RSUs	with	service	or	service	and	performance	conditions	is	measured	on	the	grant	date	based	on	the	closing	fair	market	value
	
of	our	common	stock.	The	risk-free	interest	rate	is	based	on	the	U.S.	Treasury	yield	for	zero-coupon	U.S.	Treasury	notes	with	maturities	approximating
	
each	grant’s	expected	life.	We	use	our	historical	data	in	estimating	the	expected	term	of	our	employee	grants.	The	expected	volatility	is	based	on	the
	
average	of	the	implied	volatility	of	publicly	traded	options	for	our	common	stock	and	the	historical	volatility	of	our	common	stock.
2018	CEO	Performance	Award
In	March	2018,	our	stockholders	approved	the	Board	of	Directors’	grant	of	
304.0
	million	stock	option	awards,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the
	
2020	Stock	Split	and	the	2022	Stock	Split,	to	our	CEO	(the	“2018	CEO	Performance	Award”).	The	2018	CEO	Performance	Award	consists	of	
12
	vesting
	
tranches	with	a	vesting	schedule	based	entirely	on	the	attainment	of	both	operational	milestones	(performance	conditions)	and	market	conditions,
	
assuming	continued	employment	either	as	the	CEO	or	as	both	Executive	Chairman	and	Chief	Product	Officer	and	service	through	each	vesting	date.
	
Each	of	the	12	vesting	tranches	of	the	2018	CEO	Performance	Award	will	vest	upon	certification	by	the	Board	of	Directors	that	both	(i)	the	market
	
capitalization	milestone	for	such	tranche,	which	began	at	$
100.0
	billion	for	the	first	tranche	and	increases	by	increments	of	$
50.0
	billion	thereafter
	
(based	on	both	a	six	calendar	month	trailing	average	and	a	30	calendar	day	trailing	average,	counting	only	trading	days),	has	been	achieved,	and	(ii)	any
	
one	of	the	following	
eight
	operational	milestones	focused	on	total	revenue	or	any	one	of	the	
eight
	operational	milestones	focused	on	Adjusted	EBITDA
	
have	been	achieved	for	the	four	consecutive	fiscal	quarters	on	an	annualized	basis	and	subsequently	reported	by	us	in	our	consolidated	financial
	
statements	filed	with	our	Forms	10-Q	and/or	10-K.
	Adjusted	EBITDA	is	defined	as	net	income	(loss)	attributable	to	common	stockholders	before	interest
	
expense,	provision	(benefit)	for	income	taxes,	depreciation	and	amortization	and	stock-based	compensation.	Upon	vesting	and	exercise,	including	the
	
payment	of	the	exercise	price	of	$
23.34
	per	share	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2020	Stock	Split	and	the	2022	Stock	Split,	our	CEO	must	hold	shares
	
that	he	acquires	for	
five	years
	post-exercise,	other	than	a	cashless	exercise	where	shares	are	simultaneously	sold	to	pay	for	the	exercise	price	and	any
	
required	tax	withholding.
	
The	achievement	status	of	the	operational	milestones	as	of	
December	31,	2022	is	provided	below.	Although	an	operational	milestone	is	deemed
	
achieved	in	the	last	quarter	of	the	relevant	annualized	period,	it	may	be	certified	only	after	the	financial	statements	supporting	its	achievement	have
	
been	filed	with	our	Forms	10-Q	and/or	10-K.
	
	
Total	Annualized	Revenue
	
Annualized	Adjusted	EBITDA
Milestone
(in	billions)
	
	
Achievement	Status
	
Milestone
(in	billions)
	
	
Achievement	Status
$
20.0
	
	
Achieved
	
$
1.5
	
	
Achieved
$
35.0
	
	
Achieved
	
$
3.0
	
	
Achieved
$
55.0
	
	
Achieved
	
$
4.5
	
	
Achieved
$
75.0
	
	
Achieved
	(1)
	
$
6.0
	
	
Achieved
$
100.0
	
	
-
	
$
8.0
	
	
Achieved
$
125.0
	
	
-
	
$
10.0
	
	
Achieved
$
150.0
	
	
-
	
$
12.0
	
	
Achieved
$
175.0
	
	
-
	
$
14.0
	
	
Achieved
	
(1)
Achieved	in	the	fourth	quarter	of	2022	and	expected	to	be	certified	following	the	filing	of	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K.
	
79	
Stock-based	compensation	under	the	2018	CEO	Performance	Award	represents	a	non-cash	expense	and	is	recorded	as	a	Selling,	general,	and
	
administrative	operating	expense	in	our	consolidated	statements	of	operations.	In	each	quarter	since	the	grant	of	the	2018	CEO	Performance	Award,	we
	
have	recognized	expense,	generally	on	a	pro-rated	basis,	for	only	the	number	of	tranches	(up	to	the	maximum	of	
12
	tranches)	that	corresponds	to	the
	
number	of	operational	milestones	that	have	been	achieved	or	have	been	determined	probable	of	being	achieved	in	the	future,	in	accordance	with	the
	
following	principles.
On	the	grant	date,	a	Monte	Carlo	simulation	was	used	to	determine	for	each	tranche	(i)	a	fixed	amount	of	expense	for	such	tranche	and	(ii)	the
	
future	time	when	the	market	capitalization	milestone	for	such	tranche	was	expected	to	be	achieved,	or	its	“expected	market	capitalization	milestone
	
achievement	time.”	Separately,	based	on	a	subjective	assessment	of	our	future	financial	performance,	each	quarter	we	determine	whether	it	is	probable
	
that	we	will	achieve	each	operational	milestone	that	has	not	previously	been	achieved	or	deemed	probable	of	achievement	and	if	so,	the	future	time
	
when	we	expect	to	achieve	that	operational	milestone,	or	its	“expected	operational	milestone	achievement	time.”
During	the	first	quarter	of	2022,	
three
	operational	milestones	were	achieved	and	consequently,	we	recognized	an	aggregate	catch-up	expense	of
	
$
11
	million.
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	all	remaining	unrecognized	stock-based	compensation	expense	under	the	2018	CEO	Performance	Award	has	been
	
recognized.	For	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	we	recorded	stock-based	compensation	expense	of	$
66
	million,	$
910
	million	and
	
$
838
	million,	respectively,	related	to	the	2018	CEO	Performance	Award.
Other	Performance-Based	Grants
2021	Performance-Based	Stock	Option	&	RSU	Awards
During	the	fourth	quarter	of	2021,	the	Compensation	Committee	of	our	Board	of	Directors	granted	to	certain	employees	performance-based
	
RSUs	and	stock	options	to	purchase	an	aggregate	
2.2
	million	shares	of	our	common	stock,	as	adjusted	to	give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split.	We	begin
	
recording	stock-based	compensation	expense	when	the	performance	milestones	become	probable	of	achievement.	Following	achievement,	vesting
	
occurs	over	a	two-year	period	with	continued	employment.	As	of	
December	31,	2022,	we	had	unrecognized	stock-based	compensation	expense	of	
$
204
	
million,	which	will	be	recognized	over	a	weighted-average	period	of	
3.2
	years.	For	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	we	recorded	
$
159
	million	of
	
stock-based	compensation	expense	related	to	this	grant,	net	of	forfeitures.
Summary	Stock-Based	Compensation	Information
The	following	table	summarizes	our	stock-based	compensation	expense	by	line	item	in	the	consolidated	statements	of	operations	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Cost	of	revenues
	
$
594
	
	
$
421
	
	
$
281
	
Research	and	development
	
	
536
	
	
	
448
	
	
	
346
	
Selling,	general	and	administrative
	
	
430
	
	
	
1,252
	
	
	
1,107
	
Total
	
$
1,560
	
	
$
2,121
	
	
$
1,734
	
	
Our	income	tax	benefits	recognized	from	stock-based	compensation	arrangements	in	each	of	the	periods	presented	were	immaterial	due	to
	
cumulative	losses	and	valuation	allowances.	During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020,	stock-based	compensation	expense	capitalized
	
to	our	consolidated	balance	sheets	was	$
245
	million,	$
182
	million	and	$
89
	million,	respectively.	As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	had	$
3.94
	billion	of	total
	
unrecognized	stock-based	compensation	expense	related	to	non-performance	awards,	which	will	be	recognized	over	a	weighted-average	period	of	
2.26
	
years.
	
80	
Note	14	–	Income	Taxes
A	provision	for	income	taxes	of	$
1.13
	billion,	$
699
	million	and	$
292
	million	has	been	recognized	for	the	
years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021
	
and	2020,	respectively,	related	primarily	to	our	subsidiaries	located	outside	of	the	U.S.	Our	income	before	provision	for	income	taxes	for	the	years
	
ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020	was	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Domestic
	
$
5,524
	
	
$
(
130
)
	
$
(
198
)
Noncontrolling	interest	and	redeemable	
			noncontrolling	interest
	
	
31
	
	
	
125
	
	
	
141
	
Foreign
	
	
8,164
	
	
	
6,348
	
	
	
1,211
	
Income	before	income	taxes
	
$
13,719
	
	
$
6,343
	
	
$
1,154
	
	
The	components	of	the	provision	for	income	taxes	for	the	
years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Current:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Federal
	
$
—
	
	
$
—
	
	
$
—
	
State
	
	
62
	
	
	
9
	
	
	
4
	
Foreign
	
	
1,266
	
	
	
839
	
	
	
248
	
Total	current
	
	
1,328
	
	
	
848
	
	
	
252
	
Deferred:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Federal
	
	
26
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
State
	
	
1
	
	
	
—
	
	
	
—
	
Foreign
	
	
(
223
)
	
	
(
149
)
	
	
40
	
Total	deferred
	
	
(
196
)
	
	
(
149
)
	
	
40
	
Total	provision	for	income	taxes
	
$
1,132
	
	
$
699
	
	
$
292
	
	
Deferred	tax	assets	(liabilities)	as	of	
December	31,	2022	and	2021	consisted	of	the	following	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Deferred	tax	assets:
	
	
	
	
	
	
Net	operating	loss	carry-forwards
	
$
4,486
	
	
$
7,607
	
Research	and	development	credits
	
	
1,184
	
	
	
923
	
Other	tax	credits	and	attributes
	
	
217
	
	
	
335
	
Deferred	revenue
	
	
751
	
	
	
546
	
Inventory	and	warranty	reserves
	
	
819
	
	
	
377
	
Stock-based	compensation
	
	
185
	
	
	
115
	
Operating	lease	right-of-use	liabilities
	
	
554
	
	
	
430
	
Capitalized	research	and	development	costs
	
	
693
	
	
	
—
	
Deferred	GILTI	tax	assets
	
	
466
	
	
	
556
	
Accruals	and	others
	
	
178
	
	
	
191
	
Total	deferred	tax	assets
	
	
9,533
	
	
	
11,080
	
Valuation	allowance
	
	
(
7,349
)
	
	
(
9,074
)
Deferred	tax	assets,	net	of	valuation	allowance
	
	
2,184
	
	
	
2,006
	
Deferred	tax	liabilities:
	
	
	
	
	
	
Depreciation	and	amortization
	
	
(
1,178
)
	
	
(
1,279
)
Investment	in	certain	financing	funds
	
	
(
238
)
	
	
(
209
)
Operating	lease	right-of-use	assets
	
	
(
506
)
	
	
(
391
)
Deferred	revenue
	
	
—
	
	
	
(
49
)
Other
	
	
(
15
)
	
	
(
13
)
Total	deferred	tax	liabilities
	
	
(
1,937
)
	
	
(
1,941
)
Deferred	tax	assets	(liabilities),	net	of	valuation	allowance
	
$
247
	
	
$
65
	
	
81	
	
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	we	recorded	a	valuation	allowance	of	$
7.35
	billion	for	the	portion	of	the	deferred	tax	asset	that	we	do	not	expect	to	be
	
realized.	The	valuation	allowance	on	our	net	deferred	taxes	decreased	by	$
1.73
	billion	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022,	and	increased	by	$
6.14
	
billion	and	$
974
	million	during	the	
years	ended	December	31,	2021	and	2020
,	respectively.	The	changes	in	valuation	allowance	are	primarily	due	to
	
changes	in	U.S.	deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	incurred	in	the	respective	year.	The	decrease	in	the	year	ended	December	31,	2022	included
	
utilization	of	$
13.57
	billion	net	operating	loss	carry	forwards	to	offset	our	2022	U.S.	taxable	income.	We	have	$
532
	million	of	deferred	tax	assets	in
	
foreign	jurisdictions,	which	management	believes	are	more-likely-than-not	to	be	realized	given	the	expectation	of	future	earnings	in	these	jurisdictions.
	
We	did	not	have	any	material	releases	of	valuation	allowance	for	the	
years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020.	We	continue	to	monitor	the
	
realizability	of	the	U.S.	deferred	tax	assets	taking	into	account	multiple	factors.	In	completing	this	assessment,	we	considered	both	objective	and
	
subjective	factors.	These	factors	included,	but	were	not	limited	to,	a	history	of	losses	in	prior	years,	excess	tax	benefits	related	to	stock-based
	
compensation,	future	reversal	of	existing	temporary	differences	and	tax	planning	strategies.	After	evaluating	all	available	evidence,	we	intend	to
	
continue	maintaining	a	full	valuation	allowance	on	our	U.S.	deferred	tax	assets	until	there	is	sufficient	evidence	to	support	the	reversal	of	all	or	some
	
portion	of	these	allowances.	Given	the	improvement	in	our	operating	results	and	depending	on	the	amount	of	stock-based	compensation	tax	deductions
	
available	in	the	future,	we	may	release	the	valuation	allowance	associated	with	the	U.S.	deferred	tax	assets	in	the	next	few	years.	Release	of	all,	or	a
	
portion,	of	the	valuation	allowance	would	result	in	the	recognition	of	certain	deferred	tax	assets	and	a	decrease	to	income	tax	expense	for	the	period	the
	
release	is	recorded.
The	reconciliation	of	taxes	at	the	federal	statutory	rate	to	our	provision	for	income	taxes	for	the	
years	ended	December	31,	2022,	2021	and	2020
	
was	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Tax	at	statutory	federal	rate
	
$
2,881
	
	
$
1,332
	
	
$
242
	
State	tax,	net	of	federal	benefit
	
	
51
	
	
	
6
	
	
	
4
	
Nondeductible	executive	compensations
	
	
14
	
	
	
201
	
	
	
184
	
Other	nondeductible	expenses
	
	
89
	
	
	
67
	
	
	
52
	
Excess	tax	benefits	related	to	stock	based	
			compensation
	
	
(
745
)
	
	
(
7,123
)
	
	
(
666
)
Foreign	income	rate	differential
	
	
(
923
)
	
	
(
668
)
	
	
33
	
U.S.	tax	credits
	
	
(
276
)
	
	
(
328
)
	
	
(
181
)
Noncontrolling	interests	and	redeemable	
			noncontrolling	interests	adjustment
	
	
42
	
	
	
11
	
	
	
5
	
GILTI	inclusion
	
	
1,279
	
	
	
1,008
	
	
	
133
	
Unrecognized	tax	benefits
	
	
252
	
	
	
28
	
	
	
1
	
Change	in	valuation	allowance
	
	
(
1,532
)
	
	
6,165
	
	
	
485
	
Provision	for	income	taxes
	
$
1,132
	
	
$
699
	
	
$
292
	
	
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	we	had	$
18.0
	billion	of	federal	and	$
14.0
	billion	of	state	net	operating	loss	carry-forwards	available	to	offset	future
	
taxable	income,	some	of	which,	if	not	utilized,	will	begin	to	expire	in	2023	for	federal	and	state	purposes.	A	portion	of	these	losses	were	generated	by
	
our	acquisition	of	SolarCity	Corporation	(“SolarCity”)	and	some	of	the	other	companies	we	acquired,	and	therefore	are	subject	to	change	of	control
	
provisions,	which	limit	the	amount	of	acquired	tax	attributes	that	can	be	utilized	in	a	given	tax	year.	We	do	not	expect	the	change	of	control	limitations
	
or	expiration	dates	to	significantly	impact	our	ability	to	utilize	these	attributes.
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	we	had	research	and	development	tax	credits	of	$
969
	million	and	$
734
	million	for	federal	and	state	income	tax
	
purposes,	respectively.	If	not	utilized,	the	federal	research	and	development	tax	credits	will	expire	in	various	amounts	beginning	in	
2024
.	However,	the
	
state	of	California	research	and	development	tax	credits	can	be	carried	forward	indefinitely.	In	addition,	we	have	other	general	business	tax	credits	of
	
$
197
	million	for	federal	income	tax	purposes,	which	will	not	begin	to	significantly	expire	until	
2033
.
Federal	and	state	laws	can	impose	substantial	restrictions	on	the	utilization	of	net	operating	loss	and	tax	credit	carry-forwards	in	the	event	of	an
	
“ownership	change,”	as	defined	in	Section	382	of	the	Internal	Revenue	Code.	We	have	determined	that	no	significant	limitation	would	be	placed	on	the
	
utilization	of	our	net	operating	loss	and	tax	credit	carry-forwards	due	to	prior	ownership	changes.
The	local	government	of	Shanghai	granted	a	beneficial	corporate	income	tax	rate	of	
15
%	to	certain	eligible	enterprises,	compared	to	the	
25
%
	
statutory	corporate	income	tax	rate	in	China.	Our	Gigafactory	Shanghai	subsidiary	was	granted	this	beneficial	income	tax	rate	of	
15
%	for	2019	through
	
2023.
82	
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	we	intend	to	indefinitely	reinvest	our	foreign	earnings	and	cash	unless	such	repatriation	results	in	no	or	minimal	tax
	
costs.	We	have	recorded	the	taxes	associated	with	the	earnings	we	intend	to	repatriate	in	the	future.	For	the	earnings	we	intend	to	indefinitely	reinvest,
	
no
	deferred	tax	liabilities	for	foreign	withholding	or	other	taxes	have	been	recorded.	The	estimated	amount	of	such	unrecognized	deferred	tax	liability
	
associated	with	the	indefinitely	reinvested	earnings	is	approximately	$
168
	million.
Uncertain	Tax	Positions
The	changes	to	our	gross	unrecognized	tax	benefits	were	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
	
	
December	31,	2019
	
$
273
	
Increases	in	balances	related	to	prior	year	tax	positions
	
	
66
	
Increases	in	balances	related	to	current	year	tax
			positions
	
	
41
	
December	31,	2020
		
	
380
	
Increases	in	balances	related	to	prior	year	tax	positions
		
	
117
	
Decreases	in	balances	related	to	prior	year	tax	positions
	
	
(
90
)
Increases	in	balances	related	to	current	year	tax	
			positions
		
	
124
	
December	31,	2021
		
	
531
	
Increases	in	balances	related	to	prior	year	tax	positions
		
	
136
	
Decreases	in	balances	related	to	prior	year	tax	positions
	
	
(
12
)
Increases	in	balances	related	to	current	year	tax	positions
	
	
222
	
Decreases	in	balances	related	to	expiration	of	the	statute	of	limitations
		
	
(
7
)
December	31,	2022
	
$
870
	
	
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	accrued	interest	and	penalties	related	to	unrecognized	tax	benefits	are	classified	as	income	tax	expense	and	amounted
	
to	$
31
	million.	Unrecognized	tax	benefits	of	$
572
	million,	if	recognized,	would	not	affect	our	effective	tax	rate	since	the	tax	benefits	would	increase	a
	
deferred	tax	asset	that	is	currently	fully	offset	by	a	valuation	allowance.
	
We	file	income	tax	returns	in	the	U.S.	and	various	state	and	foreign	jurisdictions.	We	are	currently	under	examination	by	the	Internal	Revenue
	
Service	(“IRS”)	for	the	years	
2015
	to	
2018
.	Additional	tax	years	within	the	periods	
2004
	to	
2014
	and	
2019
	to	
2021
	remain	subject	to	examination	for
	
federal	income	tax	purposes.	All	net	operating	losses	and	tax	credits	generated	to	date	are	subject	to	adjustment	for	U.S.	federal	and	state	income	tax
	
purposes.	Our	returns	for	
2004
	and	subsequent	tax	years	remain	subject	to	examination	in	U.S.	state	and	foreign	jurisdictions.
Given	the	uncertainty	in	timing	and	outcome	of	our	tax	examinations,	an	estimate	of	the	range	of	the	reasonably	possible	change	in	gross
	
unrecognized	tax	benefits	within	twelve	months	cannot	be	made	at	this	time.
	
Note	15	–	Commitments	and	Contingencies
Operating	Lease	Arrangement	in	Buffalo,	New	York
We	have	an	operating	lease	through	the	Research	Foundation	for	the	SUNY	Foundation	with	respect	to	Gigafactory	New	York.	Under	the	lease
	
and	a	related	research	and	development	agreement,	we	are	continuing	to	further	develop	the	facility.
	
Under	this	agreement,	we	are	obligated	to,	among	other	things,	meet	employment	targets	as	well	as	specified	minimum	numbers	of	personnel	in
	
the	State	of	New	York	and	in	Buffalo,	New	York	and	spend	or	incur	$
5.00
	billion	in	combined	capital,	operational	expenses,	costs	of	goods	sold	and
	
other	costs	in	the	State	of	New	York	during	the	
10-year
	period	beginning	April	30,	2018.	On	an	annual	basis	during	the	initial	lease	term,	as	measured
	
on	each	anniversary	of	such	date,	if	we	fail	to	meet	these	specified	investment	and	job	creation	requirements,	then	we	would	be	obligated	to	pay	a	$
41
	
million	“program	payment”	to	the	SUNY	Foundation	for	each	year	that	we	fail	to	meet	these	requirements.	Furthermore,	if	the	arrangement	is
	
terminated	due	to	a	material	breach	by	us,	then	additional	amounts	may	become	payable	by	us.
In	2021,	an	amendment	was	executed	to	extend	our	overall	agreement	to	spend	or	incur	$
5.00
	billion	in	combined	capital,	operational	expenses,
	
costs	of	goods	sold	and	other	costs	in	the	State	of	New	York	through	December	31,	2029.	On	February	1,	2022,	we	reported	to	the	State	of	New	York
	
that	we	had	met	and	exceeded	our	annual	requirements	for	jobs	and	investment	in	Buffalo	and	New	York	State.	As	of	December	31,	2022,	we	are
	
currently	in	excess	of	such	targets	relating	to	investments	and	personnel	in	the	State	of	New	York	and	Buffalo	and	do	not	currently	expect	any	issues
	
meeting	our	applicable	obligations	in	the	years	beyond.	However,	if	our	expectations	as	to	the	costs	and	timelines	of	our	investment	and	operations	at
	
Buffalo	or	our	production	ramp	of	the	Solar	Roof	prove	incorrect,	we	may	incur	additional	expenses	or	be	required	to	make	substantial	payments	to	the
	
SUNY	Foundation.
83	
Operating	Lease	Arrangement	in	Shanghai,	China
We	have	an	operating	lease	arrangement	for	an	initial	term	of	
50	years
	with	the	local	government	of	Shanghai	for	land	use	rights	where	we	have
	
been	constructing	Gigafactory	Shanghai.	Under	the	terms	of	the	arrangement,	we	are	required	to	spend	RMB	
14.08
	billion	in	capital	expenditures	by
	
the	end	of	2023	and	to	generate	RMB	
2.23
	billion	of	annual	tax	revenues	starting	at	the	end	of	2023.	If	we	are	unwilling	or	unable	to	meet	such	target
	
or	obtain	periodic	project	approvals,	in	accordance	with	the	Chinese	government’s	standard	terms	for	such	arrangements,	we	would	be	required	to
	
revert	the	site	to	the	local	government	and	receive	compensation	for	the	remaining	value	of	the	land	lease,	buildings	and	fixtures.	We	expect	to	meet
	
the	capital	expenditure	and	tax	revenue	requirements	based	on	our	current	level	of	spend	and	sales.
Legal	Proceedings
Litigation	Relating	to	the	SolarCity	Acquisition
Between	September	1,	2016	and	October	5,	2016,	
seven
	lawsuits	were	filed	in	the	Delaware	Court	of	Chancery	by	purported	stockholders	of
	
Tesla	challenging	our	acquisition	of	SolarCity.	Following	consolidation,	the	lawsuit	names	as	defendants	the	members	of	Tesla’s	board	of	directors	as
	
then	constituted	and	alleges,	among	other	things,	that	board	members	breached	their	fiduciary	duties	in	connection	with	the	acquisition.	The	complaint
	
asserts	both	derivative	claims	and	direct	claims	on	behalf	of	a	purported	class	and	seeks,	among	other	relief,	unspecified	monetary	damages,	attorneys’
	
fees	and	costs.	On	January	22,	2020,	all	of	the	director	defendants	except	Elon	Musk	reached	a	settlement	to	resolve	the	lawsuit	against	them	for	an
	
amount	to	be	paid	entirely	under	the	applicable	insurance	policy.	The	settlement,	which	does	not	involve	an	admission	of	any	wrongdoing	by	any	party,
	
was	approved	by	the	Court	on	August	17,	2020.	Tesla	received	payment	of	approximately	$
43
	million	on	September	16,	2020,	which	has	been
	
recognized	in	our	consolidated	statements	of	operations	as	a	reduction	to	Selling,	general	and	administrative	operating	expenses	for	costs	previously
	
incurred	related	to	the	acquisition	of	SolarCity.	On	February	4,	2020,	the	Court	issued	a	ruling	that	denied	plaintiffs’	previously-filed	motion	for
	
summary	judgment	and	granted	in	part	and	denied	in	part	defendants’	previously-filed	motion	for	summary	judgment.	The	case	was	set	for	trial	in
	
March	2020	until	it	was	postponed	by	the	Court	due	to	safety	precautions	concerning	COVID-19.	The	trial	was	held	from	July	12	to	July	23,	2021	and	on
	
August	16,	2021.	
On	October	22,	2021,	the	Court	approved	the	parties’	joint	stipulation	that	(a)	the	class	is	decertified	and	the	action	shall	continue
	
exclusively	as	a	derivative	action	under	Court	of	Chancery	Rule	23.1	and	(b)	the	direct	claims	against	Elon	Musk	are	dismissed	with	prejudice.
	
Following	post-trial	briefing,	post-trial	argument	was	held	on	January	18,	2022.
On	April	27,	2022,	the	Court	entered	judgment	in	favor	of	Mr.	Musk	on	all	counts.	On	May	26,	2022,	the	plaintiff	filed	a	notice	of	appeal.	The
	
parties	have	completed	briefing	and	argument	will	be	held	before	the	Supreme	Court	of	Delaware	on	March	29,	2023.
These	plaintiffs	and	others	filed	parallel	actions	in	the	U.S.	District	Court	for	the	District	of	Delaware	on	or	about	April	21,	2017.	They	include
	
claims	for	violations	of	the	federal	securities	laws	and	breach	of	fiduciary	duties	by	Tesla’s	board	of	directors.	Those	actions	have	been	consolidated	and
	
stayed	pending	the	above-referenced	Chancery	Court	litigation.
Litigation	Relating	to	2018	CEO	Performance	Award
On	June	4,	2018,	a	purported	Tesla	stockholder	filed	a	putative	class	and	derivative	action	in	the	Delaware	Court	of	Chancery	against	Elon	Musk
	
and	the	members	of	Tesla’s	board	of	directors	as	then	constituted,	alleging	corporate	waste,	unjust	enrichment	and	that	such	board	members	breached
	
their	fiduciary	duties	by	approving	the	stock-based	compensation	plan	awarded	to	Elon	Musk	in	2018.	The	complaint	seeks,	among	other	things,
	
monetary	damages	and	rescission	or	reformation	of	the	stock-based	compensation	plan.	On	August	31,	2018,	defendants	filed	a	motion	to	dismiss	the
	
complaint;	plaintiff	filed	its	opposition	brief	on	November	1,	2018;	and	defendants	filed	a	reply	brief	on	December	13,	2018.	The	hearing	on	the	motion
	
to	dismiss	was	held	on	May	9,	2019.	On	September	20,	2019,	the	Court	granted	the	motion	to	dismiss	as	to	the	corporate	waste	claim	but	denied	the
	
motion	as	to	the	breach	of	fiduciary	duty	and	unjust	enrichment	claims.	Defendants’	answer	was	filed	on	December	3,	2019.
On	January	25,	2021,	the	Court	conditionally	certified	certain	claims	and	a	class	of	Tesla	stockholders	as	a	class	action.	On	September	30,	2021,
	
plaintiff	filed	a	motion	for	leave	to	file	a	verified	amended	derivative	complaint.	On	October	1,	2021,	defendants	Kimbal	Musk	and	Steve	Jurvetson
	
moved	for	summary	judgment	as	to	the	claims	against	them.	Following	the	motion,	plaintiff	agreed	to	voluntarily	dismiss	the	claims	against	Kimbal
	
Musk	and	Steve	Jurvetson.	Plaintiff	also	moved	for	summary	judgment	on	October	1,	2021.	On	October	27,	2021,	the	Court	approved	the	parties’	joint
	
stipulation	that,	among	other	things,	(a)	all	claims	against	Kimbal	Musk	and	Steve	Jurvetson	in	the	Complaint	are	dismissed	with	prejudice;	(b)	the	class
	
is	decertified	and	the	action	shall	continue	exclusively	as	a	derivative	action	under	Court	of	Chancery	Rule	23.1;	and	(c)	the	direct	claims	against	the
	
remaining	defendants	are	dismissed	with	prejudice.	On	November	18,	2021,	the	remaining	defendants	(a)	moved	for	partial	summary	judgment,	(b)
	
opposed	plaintiff’s	summary	judgment	motion	and	(c)	opposed	the	plaintiff’s	motion	to	amend	his	complaint.	In	January	2022,	the	case	was	assigned	to	a
	
different	judge.	On	February	24,	2022,	the	court	(i)	granted	plaintiff’s	motion	to	amend	his	complaint,	and	(ii)	canceled	oral	argument	on	the	summary
	
judgment	motions,	stating	that	the	court	is	“skeptical	that	this	litigation	can	be	resolved	based	on	the	undisputed	facts”	and	the	“case	is	going	to	trial,”
	
but	that	the	“parties	may	reassert	their	arguments	made	in	support	of	summary	judgment	in	their	pre-trial	and	post-trial	briefs.”	Trial	was	held
	
November	14-18,	2022.	Post-trial	briefing	is	underway	and	post-trial	argument	is	scheduled	for	February	21,	2023.
	
84	
Litigation	Related	to	Directors’	Compensation
On	June	17,	2020,	a	purported	Tesla	stockholder	filed	a	derivative	action	in	the	Delaware	Court	of	Chancery,	purportedly	on	behalf	of	Tesla,
	
against	certain	of	Tesla’s	current	and	former	directors	regarding	compensation	awards	granted	to	Tesla’s	directors,	other	than	Elon	Musk,	between
	
2017	and	2020.	The	suit	asserts	claims	for	breach	of	fiduciary	duty	and	unjust	enrichment	and	seeks	declaratory	and	injunctive	relief,	unspecified
	
damages	and	other	relief.	Defendants	filed	their	answer	on	September	17,	2020.	Trial	is	currently	set	for	November	27,	2023,	to	December	1,	2023.
Litigation	Relating	to	Potential	Going	Private	Transaction
Between	August	10,	2018	and	September	6,	2018,	
nine
	purported	stockholder	class	actions	were	filed	against	Tesla	and	Elon	Musk	in	connection
	
with	Mr.	Musk’s	August	7,	2018	Twitter	post	that	he	was	considering	taking	Tesla	private.	All	of	the	suits	are	now	pending	in	the	U.S.	District	Court	for
	
the	Northern	District	of	California.	Although	the	complaints	vary	in	certain	respects,	they	each	purport	to	assert	claims	for	violations	of	federal
	
securities	laws	related	to	Mr.	Musk’s	statement	and	seek	unspecified	compensatory	damages	and	other	relief	on	behalf	of	a	purported	class	of
	
purchasers	of	Tesla’s	securities.	Plaintiffs	filed	their	consolidated	complaint	on	January	16,	2019	and	added	as	defendants	the	members	of	Tesla’s	board
	
of	directors.	The	now-consolidated	purported	stockholder	class	action	was	stayed	while	the	issue	of	selection	of	lead	counsel	was	briefed	and	argued
	
before	the	Ninth	Circuit.	The	Ninth	Circuit	ruled	regarding	lead	counsel.	Defendants	filed	a	motion	to	dismiss	the	complaint	on	November	22,	2019.	The
	
hearing	on	the	motion	was	held	on	March	6,	2020.	On	April	15,	2020,	the	Court	denied	defendants’	motion	to	dismiss.	The	parties	stipulated	to
	
certification	of	a	class	of	stockholders,	which	the	court	granted	on	November	25,	2020.	On	January	11,	2022,	plaintiff
	filed	a	motion	for	partial	summary
	
judgment.	On	April	1,	2022,	the	Court	granted	in	part	plaintiffs’	motion	for	partial	summary	judgment.	The	Company	disagrees	with	the	ruling	and
	
accordingly,	on	April	22,	2022,	asked	the	Court	for	reconsideration	or,	in	the	alternative,	certification	to	file	an	interlocutory	appeal.	On	June	16,	2022,
	
in	response	to	Tesla’s	motions,	the	Court	denied	certification	to	appeal	and	declined	to	reconsider	its	opinion	but	clarified	its	summary	judgment	ruling
	
to	make	clear	that	it	had	not	ruled	that	any	misstatements	it	identified	met	the	required	materiality	element	under	the	securities	statute.	The	issue	of
	
materiality	and	reliance	will	both	be	questions	for	the	jury	to	decide	at	trial,	which	started	on	January	17,	2023.
Between	October	17,	2018	and	March	8,	2021,	
seven
	derivative	lawsuits	were	filed	in	the	Delaware	Court	of	Chancery,	purportedly	on	behalf	of
	
Tesla,	against	Mr.	Musk	and	the	members	of	Tesla’s	board	of	directors,	as	constituted	at	relevant	times,	in	relation	to	statements	made	and	actions
	
connected	to	a	potential	going	private	transaction,	with	certain	of	the	lawsuits	challenging	additional	Twitter	posts	by	Mr.	Musk,	among	other	things.
	
Five
	of	those	actions	were	consolidated,	and	all	
seven
	actions	have	been	stayed	pending	resolution	of	the	above-referenced	consolidated	purported
	
stockholder	class	action.	In	addition	to	these	cases,	
two
	derivative	lawsuits	were	filed	on	October	25,	2018	and	February	11,	2019	in	the	U.S.	District
	
Court	for	the	District	of	Delaware,	purportedly	on	behalf	of	Tesla,	against	Mr.	Musk	and	the	members	of	the	Tesla	board	of	directors	as	then
	
constituted.	Those	cases	have	also	been	consolidated	and	stayed	pending	resolution	of	the	above-referenced	consolidated	purported	stockholder	class
	
action.
On	October	21,	2022,	a	lawsuit	was	filed	in	the	Delaware	Court	of	Chancery	by	a	purported	shareholder	of	Tesla	alleging,	among	other	things,
	
that	board	members	breached	their	fiduciary	duties	in	connection	with	their	oversight	of	the	Company’s	2018	settlement	with	the	SEC,	as	amended.
	
Among	other	things,	the	plaintiff	seeks	reforms	to	the	Company’s	corporate	governance	and	internal	procedures,	unspecified	damages,	and	attorneys’
	
fees.	The	parties	reached	an	agreement	to	stay	the	case	until	March	7,	2023.
Unless	otherwise	stated,	the	individual	defendants	named	in	the	stockholder	proceedings	described	above	and	the	Company	with	respect	to	the
	
stockholder	class	action	proceedings	described	above	believe	that	the	claims	in	such	proceedings	have	no	merit	and	intend	to	defend	against	them
	
vigorously.	We	are	unable	to	reasonably	estimate	the	possible	loss	or	range	of	loss,	if	any,	associated	with	these	claims.
On	November	15,	2021,	JPMorgan	Chase	Bank	(“JP	Morgan”)	filed	a	lawsuit	against	Tesla	in	the	Southern	District	of	New	York	alleging	breach	of
	
a	stock	warrant	agreement	that	was	entered	into	as	part	of	a	convertible	notes	offering	in	2014.	In	2018,	JP	Morgan	informed	Tesla	that	it	had	adjusted
	
the	strike	price	based	upon	Mr.	Musk’s	August	7,	2018	Twitter	post	that	he	was	considering	taking	Tesla	private.	Tesla	disputed	JP	Morgan’s
	
adjustment	as	a	violation	of	the	parties’	agreement.	In	2021,	Tesla	delivered	shares	to	JP	Morgan	per	the	agreement,	which	they	duly	accepted.	JP
	
Morgan	now	alleges	that	it	is	owed	approximately	$
162
	million	as	the	value	of	additional	shares	that	it	claims	should	have	been	delivered	as	a	result	of
	
the	adjustment	to	the	strike	price	in	2018.	On	January	24,	2022,	Tesla	filed	multiple	counterclaims	as	part	of	its	answer	to	the	underlying	lawsuit,
	
asserting	among	other	points	that	JP	Morgan	should	have	terminated	the	stock	warrant	agreement	in	2018	rather	than	make	an	adjustment	to	the	strike
	
price	that	it	should	have	known	would	lead	to	a	commercially	unreasonable	result.	Tesla	believes	that	the	adjustments	made	by	JP	Morgan	were	neither
	
proper	nor	commercially	reasonable,	as	required	under	the	stock	warrant	agreements.	
JP	Morgan	filed	a	motion	for	judgment	on	the	pleadings,	which
	
Tesla	opposed,	and	that	motion	is	currently	pending	before	the	Court.
	
85	
Litigation	and	Investigations	Relating	to	Alleged	Discrimination	and	Harassment
On	October	4,	2021,	in	a	case	captioned	
Diaz	v.	Tesla
,	a	jury	in	the	Northern	District	of	California	returned	a	verdict	of	$
136.9
	million	against
	
Tesla	on	claims	by	a	former	contingent	worker	that	he	was	subjected	to	race	discrimination	while	assigned	to	work	at	Tesla’s	Fremont	Factory	from
	
2015-2016.	On	November	16,	2021,	Tesla	filed	a	post-trial	motion	for	relief	that	included	a	request	for	a	new	trial	or	reduction	of	the	jury’s	damages.
	
The	Court	held	a	hearing	on	Tesla’s	motion	on	January	19,	2022.	
On	April	13,	2022,	the	Court	granted	Tesla’s	motion	in	part,	reducing	the	total
	
damages	to	$
15
	million	and	conditionally	denied	the	motion	for	a	new	trial	subject	to	the	plaintiff’s	acceptance	of	the	reduced	award.	
On	June	21,	2022,
	
the	plaintiff	rejected	the	reduced	award	and,	as	a	result,	on	June	27,	2022,	the	Court	ordered	a	new	trial	on	damages	only,	to	commence	on	March	27,
	
2023.	Tesla	continues	to	believe	that	the	facts	and	law	do	not	justify	the	damages	awarded	and	is	assessing	its	next	steps.
	
On	February	9,	2022,	shortly	after	the	
Diaz
	jury	verdict,	the	California	Civil	Rights	Department	(”CRD,”	formerly	“DFEH”)	filed	a	civil	complaint
	
against	Tesla	in	Alameda	County,	California	Superior	Court,	alleging	systemic	race	discrimination,	hostile	work	environment	and	pay	equity	claims,
	
among	others.	CRD’s	amended	complaint	seeks	monetary	damages	and	injunctive	relief.	On	September	22,	2022,	Tesla	filed	a	cross	complaint	against
	
CRD,	alleging	that	it	violated	the	Administrative	Procedures	Act	by	failing	to	follow	statutory	pre-requisites	prior	to	filing	suit	and	that	cross	complaint
	
was	subject	to	a	sustained	demurrer.	Tesla	has	until	February	3,	2023	to	amend	its	cross	complaint.	The	case	is	now	in	discovery.
	
Additionally,	on	June	1,	2022	the	Equal	Employment	Opportunity	Commission	(“EEOC”)	issued	a	cause	finding	against	Tesla	that	closely	parallels
	
the	CRD’s	allegations.	Tesla	is	in	the	process	of	setting	up	a	mandatory	mediation	with	the	EEOC.
	
On	June	16,	2022,	
two
	Tesla	stockholders	filed	separate	derivative	actions	in	the	U.S.	District	Court	for	the	Western	District	of	Texas,
	
purportedly	on	behalf	of	Tesla,	against	certain	of	Tesla’s	current	and	former	directors.	Both	suits	assert	claims	for	breach	of	fiduciary	duty,	unjust
	
enrichment,	and	violation	of	the	federal	securities	laws	in	connection	with	alleged	race	and	gender	discrimination	and	sexual	harassment.	Among	other
	
things,	plaintiffs	seek	declaratory	and	injunctive	relief,	unspecified	damages	payable	to	Tesla,	and	attorneys’	fees.	On	July	22,	2022,	the	Court
	
consolidated	the	
two
	cases	and	on	September	6,	2022,	plaintiffs	filed	a	consolidated	complaint.	On	November	7,	2022,	the	defendants	filed	a	motion	to
	
dismiss	the	case.	Plaintiffs	filed	a	response	of	January	13,	2023,	and	the	defendants’	reply	is	due	February	17,	2023.
	
Certain	Investigations	and	Other	Matters
We	receive	requests	for	information	from	regulators	and	governmental	authorities,	such	as	the	National	Highway	Traffic	Safety	Administration,
	
the	National	Transportation	Safety	Board,	the	SEC,	the	Department	of	Justice	(“DOJ”)	and	various	state,	federal,	and	international	agencies.	We
	
routinely	cooperate	with	such	regulatory	and	governmental	requests,	including	subpoenas,	formal	and	informal	requests	and	other	investigations	and
	
inquiries.
For	example,	the	SEC	had	issued	subpoenas	to	Tesla	in	connection	with	Elon	Musk’s	prior	statement	that	he	was	considering	taking	Tesla
	
private.	The	take-private	investigation	was	resolved	and	closed	with	a	settlement	entered	into	with	the	SEC	in	September	2018	and	as	further	clarified
	
in	April	2019	in	an	amendment.	The	SEC	also	has	periodically	issued	subpoenas	to	us	seeking	information	on	our	governance	processes	around
	
compliance	with	the	SEC	settlement,	as	amended.
	
Separately,	the	company	has	received	requests	from	the	DOJ	for	documents	related	to	Tesla’s	Autopilot	and	FSD	features.	To	our	knowledge	no
	
government	agency	in	any	ongoing	investigation	has	concluded	that	any	wrongdoing	occurred.	We	cannot	predict	the	outcome	or	impact	of	any	ongoing
	
matters.	Should	the	government	decide	to	pursue	an	enforcement	action,	there	exists	the	possibility	of	a	material	adverse	impact	on	our	business,
	
results	of	operation,	prospects,	cash	flows	and	financial	position.
We	are	also	subject	to	various	other	legal	proceedings	and	claims	that	arise	from	the	normal	course	of	business	activities.	If	an	unfavorable
	
ruling	or	development	were	to	occur,	there	exists	the	possibility	of	a	material	adverse	impact	on	our	business,	results	of	operations,	prospects,	cash
	
flows,	financial	position	and	brand.
86	
Letters	of	Credit
As	of	December	31,	2022
,	we	had	$
318
	million	of	unused	letters	of	credit	outstanding.
Note	16	–	Variable	Interest	Entity	Arrangements
We	have	entered	into	various	arrangements	with	investors	to	facilitate	the	funding	and	monetization	of	our	solar	energy	systems	and	vehicles.	In
	
particular,	our	wholly	owned	subsidiaries	and	fund	investors	have	formed	and	contributed	cash	and	assets	into	various	financing	funds	and	entered	into
	
related	agreements.	We	have	determined	that	the	funds	are	VIEs	and	we	are	the	primary	beneficiary	of	these	VIEs	by	reference	to	the	power	and
	
benefits	criterion	under	ASC	810.	We	have	considered	the	provisions	within	the	agreements,	which	grant	us	the	power	to	manage	and	make	decisions
	
that	affect	the	operation	of	these	VIEs,	including	determining	the	solar	energy	systems	and	the	associated	customer	contracts	to	be	sold	or	contributed
	
to	these	VIEs,	redeploying	solar	energy	systems	and	managing	customer	receivables.	We	consider	that	the	rights	granted	to	the	fund	investors	under
	
the	agreements	are	more	protective	in	nature	rather	than	participating.
As	the	primary	beneficiary	of	these	VIEs,	we	consolidate	in	the	financial	statements	the	financial	position,	results	of	operations	and	cash	flows	of
	
these	VIEs,	and	all	intercompany	balances	and	transactions	between	us	and	these	VIEs	are	eliminated	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	Cash
	
distributions	of	income	and	other	receipts	by	a	fund,	net	of	agreed	upon	expenses,	estimated	expenses,	tax	benefits	and	detriments	of	income	and	loss
	
and	tax	credits,	are	allocated	to	the	fund	investor	and	our	subsidiary	as	specified	in	the	agreements.
Generally,	our	subsidiary	has	the	option	to	acquire	the	fund	investor’s	interest	in	the	fund	for	an	amount	based	on	the	market	value	of	the	fund	or
	
the	formula	specified	in	the	agreements.
Upon	the	sale	or	liquidation	of	a	fund,	distributions	would	occur	in	the	order	and	priority	specified	in	the	agreements.
Pursuant	to	management	services,	maintenance	and	warranty	arrangements,	we	have	been	contracted	to	provide	services	to	the	funds,	such	as
	
operations	and	maintenance	support,	accounting,	lease	servicing	and	performance	reporting.	In	some	instances,	we	have	guaranteed	payments	to	the
	
fund	investors	as	specified	in	the	agreements.	A	fund’s	creditors	have	no	recourse	to	our	general	credit	or	to	that	of	other	funds.	Certain	assets	of	the
	
funds	have	been	pledged	as	collateral	for	their	obligations.
The	aggregate	carrying	values	of	the	VIEs’	assets	and	liabilities,	after	elimination	of	any	intercompany	transactions	and	balances,	in	the
	
consolidated	balance	sheets	were	as	follows	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Assets
	
	
	
	
	
	
Current	assets
	
	
	
	
	
	
Cash	and	cash	equivalents
	
$
68
	
	
$
87
	
Accounts	receivable,	net
	
	
22
	
	
	
24
	
Prepaid	expenses	and	other	current	assets
	
	
274
	
	
	
152
	
Total	current	assets
	
	
364
	
	
	
263
	
Solar	energy	systems,	net
	
	
4,060
	
	
	
4,515
	
Other	non-current	assets
	
	
404
	
	
	
276
	
Total	assets
	
$
4,828
	
	
$
5,054
	
Liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
	
Current	liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
	
Accrued	liabilities	and	other
	
$
69
	
	
$
74
	
Deferred	revenue
	
	
10
	
	
	
11
	
Current	portion	of	debt	and	finance	leases
	
	
1,013
	
	
	
1,031
	
Total	current	liabilities
	
	
1,092
	
	
	
1,116
	
Deferred	revenue,	net	of	current	portion
	
	
149
	
	
	
161
	
Debt	and	finance	leases,	net	of	current	portion
	
	
971
	
	
	
2,093
	
Other	long-term	liabilities
	
	
3
	
	
	
11
	
Total	liabilities
	
$
2,215
	
	
$
3,381
	
	
Note	17	–	Related	Party	Transactions
In	February	2020,	our	CEO	and	a	member	of	our	Board	of	Directors	purchased	from	us	
195,555
	and	
18,750
	shares,	respectively,	as	adjusted	to
	
give	effect	to	the	2022	Stock	Split,	of	our	common	stock	in	a	public	offering	at	the	public	offering	price	for	an	aggregate	$
10
	million	and	$
1
	million,
	
respectively.
87	
In	June	2020,	our	CEO	entered	into	an	indemnification	agreement	with	us	for	an	interim	term	of	
90
	days.	During	the	interim	term,	we	resumed
	
our	annual	evaluation	of	all	available	options	for	providing	directors’	and	officers’	indemnity	coverage,	which	we	had	suspended	during	the	height	of
	
shelter-in-place	requirements	related	to	the	COVID-19	pandemic.	As	part	of	such	process,	we	obtained	a	binding	market	quote	for	a	directors’	and
	
officers’	liability	insurance	policy	with	an	aggregate	coverage	limit	of	$
100
	million.
Pursuant	to	the	indemnification	agreement,	our	CEO	provided,	from	his	personal	funds,	directors’	and	officers’	indemnity	coverage	to	us	during
	
the	interim	term	in	the	event	such	coverage	is	not	indemnifiable	by	us,	up	to	a	total	of	$
100
	million.	In	return,	we	paid	our	CEO	a	total	of	$
3
	million,
	
which	represents	the	market-based	premium	for	the	market	quote	described	above	as	prorated	for	90	days	and	further	discounted	by	
50
%.	Following
	
the	lapse	of	the	90-day	period,	we	did	not	extend	the	term	of	the	indemnification	agreement	with	our	CEO	and	instead	bound	a	customary	directors’	and
	
officers’	liability	insurance	policy	with	third-party	carriers.
In	relation	to	our	CEO’s	exercise	of	stock	options	and	sale	of	common	stock	from	the	2012	CEO	Performance	Award,	Tesla	withheld	the
	
appropriate	amount	of	taxes.	However,	given	the	significant	amounts	involved,	our	CEO	entered	into	an	indemnification	agreement	with	us	in
	
November	2021	for	additional	taxes	owed,	if	any.
	
Tesla	periodically	does	business	with	certain	entities	with	which	its	CEO	and	directors	are	affiliated,	such	as	SpaceX	and	Twitter,	Inc.,	in
	
accordance	with	our	Related	Person	Transactions	Policy.	Such	transactions	have	not	had	to	date,	and	are	not	currently	expected	to	have,	a	material
	
impact	on	our	consolidated	financial	statements.
	
Note	18	–	Segment	Reporting	and	Information	about	Geographic	Areas
We	have	
two
	operating	and	reportable	segments:	(i)	automotive	and	(ii)	energy	generation	and	storage.	The	automotive	segment	includes	the
	
design,	development,	manufacturing,	sales	and	leasing	of	electric	vehicles	as	well	as	sales	of	automotive	regulatory	credits.	Additionally,	the	automotive
	
segment	is	also	comprised	of	services	and	other,	which	includes	non-warranty	after-sales	vehicle	services	and	parts,	paid	Supercharging,	sales	of	used
	
vehicles,	retail	merchandise	and	vehicle	insurance	revenue.	The	energy	generation	and	storage	segment	includes	the	design,	manufacture,	installation,
	
sales	and	leasing	of	solar	energy	generation	and	energy	storage	products	and	related	services	and	sales	of	solar	energy	systems	incentives.	Our	CODM
	
does	not	evaluate	operating	segments	using	asset	or	liability	information.	
The	following	table	presents	revenues	and	gross	profit	by	reportable	segment
	
(in	millions):
	
	
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
Automotive	segment
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Revenues
	
$
77,553
	
	
$
51,034
	
	
$
29,542
	
Gross	profit
	
$
20,565
	
	
$
13,735
	
	
$
6,612
	
Energy	generation	and	storage	segment
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Revenues
	
$
3,909
	
	
$
2,789
	
	
$
1,994
	
Gross	profit
	
$
288
	
	
$
(
129
)
	
$
18
	
	
The	following	table	presents	revenues	by	geographic	area	based	on	the	sales	location	of	our	products	(in	millions):
	
			
	
Year	Ended	December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
	
2020
	
United	States
	
$
40,553
	
	
$
23,973
	
	
$
15,207
	
China
	
	
18,145
	
	
	
13,844
	
	
	
6,662
	
Other
	
	
22,764
	
	
	
16,006
	
	
	
9,667
	
Total
	
$
81,462
	
	
$
53,823
	
	
$
31,536
	
The	following	table	presents	long-lived	assets	by	geographic	area	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
United	States
	
$
21,667
	
	
$
19,026
	
Germany
	
	
3,547
	
	
	
2,606
	
China
	
	
2,978
	
	
	
2,415
	
Other	international
	
	
845
	
	
	
602
	
Total
	
$
29,037
	
	
$
24,649
	
	
88	
The	following	table	presents	inventory	by	reportable	segment	(in	millions):
	
	
	
December	31,
	
	
December	31,
	
	
	
2022
	
	
2021
	
Automotive
	
$
10,996
	
	
$
4,978
	
Energy	generation	and	storage
	
	
1,843
	
	
	
779
	
Total
	
$
12,839
	
	
$
5,757
	
	
Note	19	–	Restructuring	and	Other
During	the	years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021
,	we	
recorded
	$
204
	million	and	$
101
	million,	respectively,	of	impairment	losses	on	digital
	
assets.	During	the	
years	ended	December	31,	2022	and	2021
,	we	also	realized	gains	of	$
64
	million	and	$
128
	million,	respectively,	in	connection	with
	
converting	our	holdings	of	digital	assets	into	fiat	currency.	Additionally,	we	recorded	other	expenses	of	$
36
	million	in	the	second	quarter	during	the
	
year	ended	December	31,	2022
.
	
89	
ITEM	9.	
CHANGES	IN	AND	DISAGREEMENTS	WITH	ACCOUNTANTS	ON	ACCOUNTING	AND	FINANCIAL	DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM	9A.	
CONTROLS	AND	PROCEDURES
Evaluation	of	Disclosure	Controls	and	Procedures
Our	management,	with	the	participation	of	our	Chief	Executive	Officer	and	our	Chief	Financial	Officer,	evaluated	the	effectiveness	of	our
	
disclosure	controls	and	procedures	pursuant	to	Rule	13a-15	under	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934,	as	amended	(the	“Exchange	Act”).	In	designing
	
and	evaluating	the	disclosure	controls	and	procedures,	our	management	recognizes	that	any	controls	and	procedures,	no	matter	how	well	designed	and
	
operated,	can	provide	only	reasonable	assurance	of	achieving	the	desired	control	objectives.	In	addition,	the	design	of	disclosure	controls	and
	
procedures	must	reflect	the	fact	that	there	are	resource	constraints	and	that	our	management	is	required	to	apply	its	judgment	in	evaluating	the
	
benefits	of	possible	controls	and	procedures	relative	to	their	costs.
Based	on	this	evaluation,	our	Chief	Executive	Officer	and	our	Chief	Financial	Officer	concluded	that,	as	of	December	31,	2022,	our	disclosure
	
controls	and	procedures	were	designed	at	a	reasonable	assurance	level	and	were	effective	to	provide	reasonable	assurance	that	the	information	we	are
	
required	to	disclose	in	reports	that	we	file	or	submit	under	the	Exchange	Act	is	recorded,	processed,	summarized	and	reported	within	the	time	periods
	
specified	in	the	SEC	rules	and	forms,	and	that	such	information	is	accumulated	and	communicated	to	our	management,	including	our	Chief	Executive
	
Officer	and	our	Chief	Financial	Officer,	as	appropriate,	to	allow	timely	decisions	regarding	required	disclosures.
Management’s	Report	on	Internal	Control	over	Financial	Reporting
Our	management	is	responsible	for	establishing	and	maintaining	adequate	internal	control	over	financial	reporting.	Internal	control	over
	
financial	reporting	is	a	process	designed	by,	or	under	the	supervision	of,	our	Chief	Executive	Officer	and	Chief	Financial	Officer	to	provide	reasonable
	
assurance	regarding	the	reliability	of	financial	reporting	and	the	preparation	of	financial	statements	for	external	purposes	in	accordance	with	generally
	
accepted	accounting	principles	and	includes	those	policies	and	procedures	that	(1)	pertain	to	the	maintenance	of	records	that	in	reasonable	detail
	
accurately	and	fairly	reflect	the	transactions	and	dispositions	of	our	assets;	(2)	provide	reasonable	assurance	that	transactions	are	recorded	as
	
necessary	to	permit	preparation	of	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	generally	accepted	accounting	principles,	and	that	our	receipts	and
	
expenditures	are	being	made	only	in	accordance	with	authorizations	of	our	management	and	directors	and	(3)	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding
	
prevention	or	timely	detection	of	unauthorized	acquisition,	use	or	disposition	of	our	assets	that	could	have	a	material	effect	on	the	financial	statements.
Under	the	supervision	and	with	the	participation	of	our	management,	including	our	Chief	Executive	Officer	and	Chief	Financial	Officer,	we
	
conducted	an	evaluation	of	the	effectiveness	of	our	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	based	on	criteria	established	in	Internal	Control	–
	
Integrated	Framework	(2013)	issued	by	the	Committee	of	Sponsoring	Organizations	of	the	Treadway	Commission	(“COSO”).	Our	management
	
concluded	that	our	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	was	effective	as	of	December	31,	2022.
Our	independent	registered	public	accounting	firm,	PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP,	has	audited	the	effectiveness	of	our	internal	control	over
	
financial	reporting	as	of	December	31,	2022,	as	stated	in	their	report	which	is	included	herein.
Limitations	on	the	Effectiveness	of	Controls
Because	of	inherent	limitations,	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	may	not	prevent	or	detect	misstatements	and	projections	of	any
	
evaluation	of	effectiveness	to	future	periods	are	subject	to	the	risk	that	controls	may	become	inadequate	because	of	changes	in	conditions,	or	that	the
	
degree	of	compliance	with	the	policies	or	procedures	may	deteriorate.
Changes	in	Internal	Control	over	Financial	Reporting
There	was	no	change	in	our	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	that	occurred	during	the	quarter	ended	December	31,	2022,	which	has
	
materially	affected,	or	is	reasonably	likely	to	materially	affect,	our	internal	control	over	financial	reporting.
ITEM	9B.	
OTHER	INFORMATION
None.
ITEM	9C.	
DISCLOSURE	REGARDING	FOREIGN	JURISDICTIONS	THAT	PREVENT	INSPECTIONS
Not	applicable.
90	
PART	III
ITEM	10.	
DIRECTORS,	EXECUTIVE	OFFICERS	AND	CORPORATE	GOVERNANCE
The	information	required	by	this	Item	10	of	Form	10-K	will	be	included	in	our	2023	Proxy	Statement	to	be	filed	with	the	Securities	and	Exchange
	
Commission	in	connection	with	the	solicitation	of	proxies	for	our	2023	Annual	Meeting	of	Stockholders	and	is	incorporated	herein	by	reference.	The
	
2023	Proxy	Statement	will	be	filed	with	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	within	120	days	after	the	end	of	the	fiscal	year	to	which	this	report
	
relates.
ITEM	11.	
EXECUTIVE	COMPENSATION
The	information	required	by	this	Item	11	of	Form	10-K	will	be	included	in	our	2023	Proxy	Statement	and	is	incorporated	herein	by	reference.
ITEM	12.	
SECURITY	OWNERSHIP	OF	CERTAIN	BENEFICIAL	OWNERS	AND	MANAGEMENT	AND	RELATED	STOCKHOLDER	MATTERS
The	information	required	by	this	Item	12	of	Form	10-K	will	be	included	in	our	2023	Proxy	Statement	and	is	incorporated	herein	by	reference.
ITEM	13.	
CERTAIN	RELATIONSHIPS	AND	RELATED	TRANSACTIONS	AND	DIRECTOR	INDEPENDENCE
The	information	required	by	this	Item	13	of	Form	10-K	will	be	included	in	our	2023	Proxy	Statement	and	is	incorporated	herein	by	reference.
ITEM	14.	
PRINCIPAL	ACCOUNTANT	FEES	AND	SERVICES
The	information	required	by	this	Item	14	of	Form	10-K	will	be	included	in	our	2023	Proxy	Statement	and	is	incorporated	herein	by	reference.
91	
PART	IV
ITEM	15.	
EXHIBITS	AND	FINANCIAL	STATEMENT	SCHEDULES
1.	Financial	statements	(see	
Index	to	Consolidated	Financial	Statements
	in	Part	II,	Item	8	of	this	report)
2.	All	financial	statement	schedules	have	been	omitted	since	the	required	information	was	not	applicable	or	was	not	present	in	amounts	sufficient	to
	
require	submission	of	the	schedules,	or	because	the	information	required	is	included	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements	or	the
	
accompanying	notes
3.	The	exhibits	listed	in	the	following	
Index	to	Exhibits
	are	filed	or	incorporated	by	reference	as	part	of	this	report
	
	
	
92	
INDEX	TO	EXHIBITS
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				3.1
		
	
Amended	and	Restated	Certificate	of	Incorporation	of
	
the	Registrant.
		
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
3.1
		
	
March	1,	2017
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				3.2
	
Certificate	of	Amendment	to	the	Amended	and
	
Restated	Certificate	of	Incorporation	of	the
	
Registrant.
	
10-K
	
001-34756
	
3.2
	
March	1,	2017
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				3.3
		
	
Amended	and	Restated	Bylaws	of	the	Registrant.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
3.2
		
	
February	1,	2017
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.1
		
	
Specimen	common	stock	certificate	of	the	Registrant.
		
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
March	1,	2017
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.2
		
	
Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investors’	Rights
	
Agreement,	dated	as	of	August	31,	2009,	between
	
Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the	Registrant’s
	
capital	stock	named	therein.
		
	
S-1
		
	
333-164593
		
	
4.2
		
	
January	29,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.3
		
	
Amendment	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investors’
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	May	20,	2010,	between
	
Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the	Registrant’s
	
capital	stock	named	therein.
		
	
S-1/A
		
	
333-164593
		
	
4.2A
		
	
May	27,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.4
		
	
Amendment	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investors’
	
Rights	Agreement	between	Registrant,	Toyota	Motor
	
Corporation	and	certain	holders	of	the	Registrant’s
	
capital	stock	named	therein.
		
	
S-1/A
		
	
333-164593
		
	
4.2B
		
	
May	27,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.5
		
	
Amendment	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investor’s
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	June	14,	2010,
	
between	Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the
	
Registrant’s	capital	stock	named	therein.
		
	
S-1/A
		
	
333-164593
		
	
4.2C
		
	
June	15,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.6
		
	
Amendment	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investor’s
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	November	2,	2010,
	
between	Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the
	
Registrant’s	capital	stock	named	therein.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
November	4,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.7
		
	
Waiver	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investor’s
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	May	22,	2011,	between
	
Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the	Registrant’s
	
capital	stock	named	therein.
		
	
S-1/A
		
	
333-174466
		
	
4.2E
		
	
June	2,	2011
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.8
		
	
Amendment	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investor’s
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	May	30,	2011,	between
	
Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the	Registrant’s
	
capital	stock	named	therein.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
June	1,	2011
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.9
		
	
Sixth	Amendment	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated
	
Investors’	Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	May	15,
	
2013	among	the	Registrant,	the	Elon	Musk	Revocable
	
Trust	dated	July	22,	2003	and	certain	other	holders	of
	
the	capital	stock	of	the	Registrant	named	therein.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
May	20,	2013
		
	
	
	
93	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.10
		
	
Waiver	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investor’s
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	May	14,	2013,	between
	
the	Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the	capital	stock
	
of	the	Registrant	named	therein.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.2
		
	
May	20,	2013
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.11
		
	
Waiver	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investor’s
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	August	13,	2015,
	
between	the	Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the
	
capital	stock	of	the	Registrant	named	therein.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
August	19,	2015
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.12
		
	
Waiver	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investors’
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	May	18,	2016,	between
	
the	Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the	capital	stock
	
of	the	Registrant	named	therein.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
May	24,	2016
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.13
	
Waiver	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investors’
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	March	15,	2017,
	
between	the	Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the
	
capital	stock	of	the	Registrant	named	therein.
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
March	17,	2017
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.14
	
Waiver	to	Fifth	Amended	and	Restated	Investors’
	
Rights	Agreement,	dated	as	of	May	1,	2019,	between
	
the	Registrant	and	certain	holders	of	the	capital	stock
	
of	the	Registrant	named	therein.
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
May	3,	2019
		
	
	
				4.15
		
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	May	22,	2013,	by	and	between
	
the	Registrant	and	U.S.	Bank	National	Association.
		
	
8-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
4.1
		
	
May	22,	2013
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.16
	
Fourth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	March	22,
	
2017,	by	and	between	the	Registrant	and	U.S.	Bank
	
National	Association.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
4.2
	
March	22,	2017
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.17
	
Form	of	2.375%	Convertible	Senior	Note	Due	March
	
15,	2022	(included	in	Exhibit	4.18).
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
4.2
	
March	22,	2017
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.18
	
Fifth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	May	7,
	
2019,	by	and	between	Registrant	and	U.S.	Bank
	
National	Association,	related	to	2.00%	Convertible
	
Senior	Notes	due	May	15,	2024.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
4.2
	
May	8,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.19
	
Form	of	2.00%	Convertible	Senior	Notes	due	May	15,
	
2024	(included	in	Exhibit	4.20).
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
4.2
	
May	8,	2019
	
	
	
94	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.20
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	October	15,	2014,	between
	
SolarCity	and	U.S.	Bank	National	Association,	as
	
trustee.
	
	
S-3ASR(1)
	
333-199321
	
4.1
	
October	15,	2014
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.21
	
Tenth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	March	9,
	
2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.00%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/6-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.3
	
March	9,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.22
	
Eleventh	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	March
	
9,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.75%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/7-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.4
	
March	9,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.23
	
Fifteenth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	March
	
19,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C4-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
March	19,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.24
	
Sixteenth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	March
	
19,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C5-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
March	19,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.25
	
Twentieth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	March
	
26,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C9-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
March	26,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.26
	
Twenty-First	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
March	26,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C10-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
March	26,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.27
	
Twenty-Sixth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
April	2,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C14-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
April	2,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.28
	
Thirtieth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	April	9,
	
2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C19-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
April	9,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.29
	
Thirty-First	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	April
	
9,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C20-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
April	9,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.30
	
Thirty-Fifth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	April
	
14,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C24-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
April	14,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.31
	
Thirty-Sixth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	April
	
14,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C25-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
April	14,	2015
	
	
	
95	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.32
	
Thirty-Eighth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
April	21,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C27-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.3
	
April	21,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.33
	
Thirty-Ninth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
April	21,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C28-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.4
	
April	21,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.34
	
Forty-Third	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	April
	
27,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C32-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
April	27,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.35
	
Forty-Fourth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
April	27,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C33-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
April	27,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.36
	
Forty-Eighth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	May
	
1,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.00%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/12-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
May	1,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.37
	
Forty-Ninth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	May
	
1,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.75%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/13-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
May	1,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.38
	
Fifty-Second	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	May
	
11,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C36-10
.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.4
	
May	11,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.39
	
Fifty-Third	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	May
	
11,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C37-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
May	11,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.40
	
Fifty-Seventh	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
May	18,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C40-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.4
	
May	18,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.41
	
Fifty-Eighth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	May
	
18,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C41-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
May	18,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.42
	
Sixty-First	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	May
	
26,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C44-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.4
	
May	26,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.43
	
Sixty-Second	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
May	26,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C45-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
May	26,	2015
	
	
	
96	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.44
	
Seventieth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	June
	
16,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C52-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.4
	
June	16,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.45
	
Seventy-First	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
June	16,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C53-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
June	16,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.46
	
Seventy-Fourth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
June	22,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C56-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.4
	
June	23,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.47
	
Seventy-Fifth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of
	
June	22,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the
	
Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,
	
Series	2015/C57-15
.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
June	23,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.48
	
Eightieth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	June
	
29,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C61-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
June	29,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.49
	
Eighty-First	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	June
	
29,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C62-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
June	29,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.50
	
Ninetieth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	July	20,
	
2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C71-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
July	21,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.51
	
Ninety-First	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	July
	
20,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/C72-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
July	21,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.52
	
Ninety-Fifth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	July
	
31,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.00%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/20-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
July	31,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.53
	
Ninety-Sixth	Supplemental	Indenture,	dated	as	of	July
	
31,	2015,	by	and	between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,
	
related	to	SolarCity’s	5.75%	Solar	Bonds,	Series
	
2015/21-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
July	31,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.54
	
One	Hundred-and-Fifth	Supplemental	Indenture,
	
dated	as	of	August	10,	2015,	by	and	between
	
SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s
	
4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C81-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
August	10,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.55
	
One	Hundred-and-Eleventh	Supplemental	Indenture,
	
dated	as	of	August	17,	2015,	by	and	between
	
SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s
	
5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C87-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
August	17,	2015
	
	
	
97	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.56
	
One	Hundred-and-Sixteenth	Supplemental	Indenture,
	
dated	as	of	August	24,	2015,	by	and	between
	
SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s
	
5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C92-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
August	24,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.57
	
One	Hundred-and-Twenty-First	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	August	31,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C97-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
August	31,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.58
	
One	Hundred-and-Twenty-Eighth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	September	14,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C101-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
September	15,
	
2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.59
	
One	Hundred-and-Twenty-Ninth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	September	14,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C102-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
September	15,
	
2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.60
	
One	Hundred-and-Thirty-Third	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	September	28,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C106-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
September	29,
	
2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.61
	
One	Hundred-and-Thirty-Fourth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	September	28,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C107-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
September	29,
	
2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.62
	
One	Hundred-and-Thirty-Eighth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	October	13,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C111-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
October	13,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.63
	
One	Hundred-and-Forty-Third	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	October	30,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.00%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/25-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
October	30,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.64
	
One	Hundred-and-Forty-Fourth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	October	30,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.75%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/26-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
October	30,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.65
	
One	Hundred-and-Forty-Eighth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	November	4,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C116-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
November	4,	2015
	
	
	
98	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.66
	
One	Hundred-and-Fifty-Third	Supplemental	Indenture,
	
dated	as	of	November	16,	2015,	by	and	between
	
SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to	SolarCity’s
	
4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C121-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
November	17,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.67
	
One	Hundred-and-Fifty-Fourth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	November	16,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C122-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
November	17,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.68
	
One	Hundred-and-Fifty-Eighth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	November	30,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C126-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
November	30,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.69
	
One	Hundred-and-Fifty-Ninth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	November	30,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C127-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
November	30,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.70
	
One	Hundred-and-Sixty-Third	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	December	14,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C131-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
December	14,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.71
	
One	Hundred-and-Sixty-Fourth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	December	14,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C132-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
December	14,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.72
	
One	Hundred-and-Sixty-Eighth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	December	28,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	4.70%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C136-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
December	28,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.73
	
One	Hundred-and-Sixty-Ninth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	December	28,	2015,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.45%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2015/C137-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
December	28,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.74
	
One	Hundred-and-Seventy-Third	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	January	29,	2016,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.00%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2016/4-10.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.5
	
January	29,	2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.75
	
One	Hundred-and-Seventy-Fourth	Supplemental
	
Indenture,	dated	as	of	January	29,	2016,	by	and
	
between	SolarCity	and	the	Trustee,	related	to
	
SolarCity’s	5.75%	Solar	Bonds,	Series	2016/5-15.
	
8-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
4.6
	
January	29,	2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
				4.76
	
Description	of	Registrant’s	Securities
	
10-K
	
001-34756
	
4.119
	
February	13,	2020
	
	
	
99	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.1**
		
	
Form	of	Indemnification	Agreement	between	the
	
Registrant	and	its	directors	and	officers.
		
	
S-1/A
		
	
333-164593
		
	
10.1
		
	
June	15,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.2**
		
	
2003	Equity	Incentive	Plan.
		
	
S-1/A
		
	
333-164593
		
	
10.2
		
	
May	27,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.3**
		
	
Form	of	Stock	Option	Agreement	under	2003	Equity
	
Incentive	Plan.
		
	
S-1
		
	
333-164593
		
	
10.3
		
	
January	29,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.4**
		
	
Amended	and	Restated	2010	Equity	Incentive	Plan.
		
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
10.4
	
February	23,	2018
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.5**
		
	
Form	of	Stock	Option	Agreement	under	2010	Equity
	
Incentive	Plan.
		
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
10.6
		
	
March	1,	2017
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.6**
		
	
Form	of	Restricted	Stock	Unit	Award	Agreement
	
under	2010	Equity	Incentive	Plan.
		
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
10.7
		
	
March	1,	2017
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.7**
		
	
Amended	and	Restated	2010	Employee	Stock
	
Purchase	Plan,	effective	as	of	February	1,	2017.
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
10.8
		
	
March	1,	2017
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.8**
		
	
2019	Equity	Incentive	Plan.
		
	
S-8
		
	
333-232079
		
	
4.2
	
June	12,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.9**
		
	
Form	of	Stock	Option	Agreement	under	2019	Equity
	
Incentive	Plan.
		
	
S-8
		
	
333-232079
		
	
4.3
		
	
June	12,	2019
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.10**
		
	
Form	of	Restricted	Stock	Unit	Award	Agreement
	
under	2019	Equity	Incentive	Plan.
		
	
S-8
		
	
333-232079
		
	
4.4
		
	
June	12,	2019
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.11**
		
	
Employee	Stock	Purchase	Plan,	effective	as	of	June
	
12,	2019.
		
	
S-8
		
	
333-232079
		
	
4.5
		
	
June	12,	2019
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.12**
	
2007	SolarCity	Stock	Plan	and	form	of	agreements
	
used	thereunder.
	
S-1(1)
	
333-184317
	
10.2
	
October	5,	2012
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.13**
	
2012	SolarCity	Equity	Incentive	Plan	and	form	of
	
agreements	used	thereunder.
	
S-1(1)
	
333-184317
	
10.3
	
October	5,	2012
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.14**
	
2010	Zep	Solar,	Inc.	Equity	Incentive	Plan	and	form	of
	
agreements	used	thereunder.
	
S-8(1)
	
333-192996
	
4.5
	
December	20,	2013
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.15**
		
	
Offer	Letter	between	the	Registrant	and	Elon	Musk
	
dated	October	13,	2008.
		
	
S-1
		
	
333-164593
		
	
10.9
		
	
January	29,	2010
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.16**
	
Performance	Stock	Option	Agreement	between	the
	
Registrant	and	Elon	Musk	dated	January	21,	2018.
	
DEF	14A
	
001-34756
	
Appendix	A
	
February	8,	2018
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.17**
	
Maxwell	Technologies,	Inc.	2005	Omnibus	Equity
	
Incentive	Plan,	as	amended	through	May	6,	2010
	
8-K(2)
	
001-15477
	
10.1
	
May	10,	2010
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.18**
	
Maxwell	Technologies,	Inc.	2013	Omnibus	Equity
	
Incentive	Plan
	
DEF	14A(2)
	
001-15477
	
Appendix	A
	
June	2,	2017
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.19
	
Indemnification	Agreement,	effective	as	of	June	23,
	
2020,	between	Registrant	and	Elon	R.	Musk.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.4
	
July	28,	2020
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.20
	
Indemnification	Agreement,	dated	as	of	February	27,
	
2014,	by	and	between	the	Registrant	and	J.P.	Morgan
	
Securities	LLC.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
March	5,	2014
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.21
	
Form	of	Call	Option	Confirmation	relating	to	1.25%
	
Convertible	Senior	Notes	Due	March	1,	2021.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.3
	
March	5,	2014
	
	
	
100	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.22
	
Form	of	Warrant	Confirmation	relating	to	1.25%
	
Convertible	Senior	Notes	Due	March	1,	2021.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.5
	
March	5,	2014
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.23
	
Form	of	Call	Option	Confirmation	relating	to	2.00%
	
Convertible	Senior	Notes	due	May	15,	2024
.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
May	3,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.24
	
Form	of	Warrant	Confirmation	relating	to	2.00%
	
Convertible	Senior	Notes	due	May	15,	2024.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.2
	
May	3,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.25​
		
	
Supply	Agreement	between	Panasonic	Corporation
	
and	the	Registrant	dated	October	5,	2011.
		
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
10.50
		
	
February	27,	2012
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.26​
		
	
Amendment	No.	1	to	Supply	Agreement	between
	
Panasonic	Corporation	and	the	Registrant	dated
	
October	29,	2013.
		
	
10-K
		
	
001-34756
		
	
10.35A
		
	
February	26,	2014
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.27
	
Agreement	between	Panasonic	Corporation	and	the
	
Registrant	dated	July	31,	2014.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
November	7,	2014
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.28​
	
General	Terms	and	Conditions	between	Panasonic
	
Corporation	and	the	Registrant	dated	October	1,
	
2014.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.2
	
October	11,	2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.29
	
Letter	Agreement,	dated	as	of	February	24,	2015,
	
regarding	addition	of	co-party	to	General	Terms	and
	
Conditions,	Production	Pricing	Agreement	and
	
Investment	Letter	Agreement	between	Panasonic
	
Corporation	and	the	Registrant.
	
10-K
	
001-34756
	
10.25A
	
February	24,	2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.30​
	
Amendment	to	Gigafactory	General	Terms,	dated
	
March	1,	2016,	by	and	among	the	Registrant,
	
Panasonic	Corporation	and	Panasonic	Energy
	
Corporation	of	North	America.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
October	11,	2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.31​​
	
Amended	and	Restated	General	Terms	and	Conditions
	
for	Gigafactory,	entered	into	on	June	10,	2020,	by	and
	
among	Registrant,	Tesla	Motors	Netherlands	B.V.,
	
Panasonic	Corporation	and	Panasonic	Corporation	of
	
North	America
.
	
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.2
	
July	28,	2020
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.32​
	
Production	Pricing	Agreement	between	Panasonic
	
Corporation	and	the	Registrant	dated	October	1,
	
2014.
	
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.3
	
November	7,	2014
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.33​
	
Investment	Letter	Agreement	between	Panasonic
	
Corporation	and	the	Registrant	dated	October	1,
	
2014.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.4
	
November	7,	2014
	
	
	
101	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.34
	
Amendment	to	Gigafactory	Documents,	dated	April	5,
	
2016,	by	and	among	the	Registrant,	Panasonic
	
Corporation,	Panasonic	Corporation	of	North	America
	
and	Panasonic	Energy	Corporation	of	North	America.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.2
	
May	10,	2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.35​​
	
2019	Pricing	Agreement	(Japan	Cells)	with	respect	to
	
2011	Supply	Agreement,	executed	September	20,
	
2019,	by	and	among	the	Registrant,	Tesla	Motors
	
Netherlands	B.V.,	Panasonic	Corporation	and	SANYO
	
Electric	Co.,	Ltd.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.6
	
October	29,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.36​​
	
2020	Pricing	Agreement	(Gigafactory	2170	Cells),
	
entered	into	on	June	9,	2020,	by	and	among
	
Registrant,	Tesla	Motors	Netherlands	B.V.,	Panasonic
	
Corporation	and	Panasonic	Corporation	of	North
	
America
.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.3
	
July	28,	2020
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.37​​
	
2021	Pricing	Agreement	(Japan	Cells)	with	respect	to
	
2011	Supply	Agreement,	executed	December	29,
	
2020,	by	and	among	the	Registrant,	Tesla	Motors
	
Netherlands	B.V.,	Panasonic	Corporation	of	North
	
America	and	SANYO	Electric	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	10-K
		
	
	001-34756
		
	
	10.39
		
	
	February	8,	2021
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.38​​
	
Amended	and	Restated	Factory	Lease,	executed	as	of
	
March	26,	2019,	by	and	between	the	Registrant	and
	
Panasonic	Energy	North	America,	a	division	of
	
Panasonic	Corporation	of	North	America,	as	tenant.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.3
	
July	29,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.39​​
	
Lease	Amendment,	executed	September	20,	2019,	by
	
and	among	the	Registrant,	Panasonic	Corporation	of
	
North	America,	on	behalf	of	its	division	Panasonic
	
Energy	of	North	America,	with	respect	to	the
	
Amended	and	Restated	Factory	Lease,	executed	as	of
	
March	26,	2019.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.7
	
October	29,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.40​​
	
Second	Lease	Amendment,	entered	into	on	June	9,
	
2020,	by	and	between	the	Registrant	and	Panasonic
	
Energy	of	North	America,	a	division	of	Panasonic
	
Corporation	of	North	America,	with	respect	to	the
	
Amended	and	Restated	Factory	Lease	dated	January
	
1,	2017
.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
July	28,	2020
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.41
	
Amendment	and	Restatement	in	respect	of	ABL	Credit
	
Agreement,	dated	as	of	March	6,	2019,	by	and	among
	
certain	of	the	Registrant’s	and	Tesla	Motors
	
Netherlands	B.V.’s	direct	or	indirect	subsidiaries	from
	
time	to	time	party	thereto,	as	borrowers,	Wells	Fargo
	
Bank,	National	Association,	as	documentation	agent,
	
JPMorgan	Chase	Bank,	N.A.,	Goldman	Sachs	Bank
	
USA,	Morgan	Stanley	Senior	Funding	Inc.	and	Bank	of
	
America,	N.A.,	as	syndication	agents,	the	lenders	from
	
time	to	time	party	thereto,	and	Deutsche	Bank	AG
	
New	York	Branch,	as	administrative	agent	and
	
collateral	agent.
	
S-4/A
	
333-229749
		
	
10.68
		
	
April	3,	2019
		
		
	
	
	
102	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.42
	
First	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated	ABL
	
Credit	Agreement,	dated	as	of	December	23,	2020,	in
	
respect	of	the	Amended	and	Restated	ABL	Credit
	
Agreement,	dated	as	of	March	6,	2019,	by	and	among
	
certain	of	the	Registrant’s	and	Tesla	Motors
	
Netherlands	B.V.’s	direct	or	indirect	subsidiaries	from
	
time	to	time	party	thereto,	as	borrowers,	Wells	Fargo
	
Bank,	National	Association,	as	documentation	agent,
	
JPMorgan	Chase	Bank,	N.A.,	Goldman	Sachs	Bank
	
USA,	Morgan	Stanley	Senior	Funding	Inc.	and	Bank	of
	
America,	N.A.,	as	syndication	agents,	the	lenders	from
	
time	to	time	party	thereto,	and	Deutsche	Bank	AG
	
New	York	Branch,	as	administrative	agent	and
	
collateral	agent.
	
	10-K
		
	
	001-34756
		
	
	10.44
		
	
	February	8,	2021
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.43​
	
	
Agreement	for	Tax	Abatement	and	Incentives,	dated
	
as	of	May	7,	2015,	by	and	between	Tesla	Motors,	Inc.
	
and	the	State	of	Nevada,	acting	by	and	through	the
	
Nevada	Governor’s	Office	of	Economic	Development.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
August	7,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.44
	
Purchase	Agreement,	dated	as	of	August	11,	2017,	by
	
and	among	the	Registrant,	SolarCity	and	Goldman
	
Sachs	&	Co.	LLC	and	Morgan	Stanley	&	Co.	LLC	as
	
representatives	of	the	several	initial	purchasers
	
named	therein.
	
8-K
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
August	23,	2017
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.45
	
Amended	and	Restated	Agreement	For	Research	&
	
Development	Alliance	on	Triex	Module	Technology,
	
effective	as	of	September	2,	2014,	by	and	between
	
The	Research	Foundation	For	The	State	University	of
	
New	York,	on	behalf	of	the	College	of	Nanoscale
	
Science	and	Engineering	of	the	State	University	of
	
New	York,	and	Silevo,	Inc.
	
10-Q(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16
	
November	6,	2014
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.46
	
First	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	October	31,
	
2014,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	Inc.
	
10-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16a
	
February	24,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.47
	
Second	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	December
	
15,	2014,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation
	
For	The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	Inc.
	
10-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16b
	
February	24,	2015
	
	
	
103	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.48
	
Third	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	February	12,
	
2015,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	Inc.
	
10-Q(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16c
	
May	6,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.49
	
Fourth	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	March	30,
	
2015,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	Inc.
	
10-Q(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16d
	
May	6,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.50
	
Fifth	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	June	30,
	
2015,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	LLC.
	
10-Q(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16e
	
July	30,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.51
	
Sixth	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	September	1,
	
2015,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	LLC.
	
10-Q(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16f
	
October	30,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.52
	
Seventh	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	October	9,
	
2015,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	LLC
.
	
10-Q(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16g
	
October	30,	2015
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.53
	
Eighth	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	October	26,
	
2015,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	LLC.
	
10-Q(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16h
	
October	30,	2015
	
	
	
104	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.54
	
Ninth	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	December	9,
	
2015,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
College	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	LLC.
	
10-K(1)
	
001-35758
	
10.16i
	
February	10,	2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.55
	
Tenth	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	For	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	March	31,
	
2017,	by	and	between	The	Research	Foundation	For
	
The	State	University	of	New	York,	on	behalf	of	the
	
Colleges	of	Nanoscale	Science	and	Engineering	of	the
	
State	University	of	New	York,	and	Silevo,	LLC.
	
10-Q
		
	
001-34756
		
	
10.8
		
	
May	10,	2017
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.56
	
Eleventh	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	for	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	July	22,
	
2020,	among	the	Research	Foundation	for	the	State
	
University	of	New	York,	Silevo,	LLC	and	Tesla	Energy
	
Operations,	Inc
.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.6
	
July	28,	2020
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.57
	
Twelfth	Amendment	to	Amended	and	Restated
	
Agreement	for	Research	&	Development	Alliance	on
	
Triex	Module	Technology,	effective	as	of	May	1,	2021,
	
among	the	Research	Foundation	for	the	State
	
University	of	New	York,	Silevo,	LLC	and	Tesla	Energy
	
Operations,	Inc
.
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.1
	
October	25,	2021
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.58​​
	
Grant	Contract	for	State-Owned	Construction	Land
	
Use	Right,	dated	as	of	October	17,	2018,	by	and
	
between	Shanghai	Planning	and	Land	Resource
	
Administration	Bureau,	as	grantor,	and	Tesla
	
(Shanghai)	Co.,	Ltd.,	as	grantee	(English	translation).
	
10-Q
	
001-34756
	
10.2
	
July	29,	2019
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		10.59
	
Credit	Agreement,	dated	as	of	January	20,	2023,
	
among	Tesla,	Inc.,	the	Lenders	and	Issuing	Banks
	
from	time	to	time	party	thereto,	Citibank,	N.A.,	as
	
Administrative	Agent	and	Deutsche	Bank	Securities,
	
Inc.,	as	Syndication	Agent
	
—
	
—
	
—
	
—
	
					X
	
105	
	
Exhibit
	
	
	
Incorporated	by	Reference
	
Filed
Number
	
Exhibit	Description
	
Form
	
File	No.
	
Exhibit
	
Filing	Date
	
Herewith
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		21.1
	
List	of	Subsidiaries	of	the	Registrant
	
—
	
—
	
—
	
—
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		23.1
		
	
Consent	of	PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP,	Independent
	
Registered	Public	Accounting	Firm
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		31.1
		
	
Rule	13a-14(a)	/	15(d)-14(a)	Certification	of	Principal
	
Executive	Officer
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		31.2
		
	
Rule	13a-14(a)	/	15(d)-14(a)	Certification	of	Principal
	
Financial	Officer
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
—
		
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		32.1*
		
	
Section	1350	Certifications
		
	
—
		
	
—
		
	
—
		
	
—
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
101.INS
		
	
Inline	XBRL	Instance	Document
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
101.SCH
		
	
Inline	XBRL	Taxonomy	Extension	Schema	Document
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
101.CAL
		
	
Inline	XBRL	Taxonomy	Extension	Calculation	Linkbase
	
Document.
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
101.DEF
		
	
Inline	XBRL	Taxonomy	Extension	Definition	Linkbase
	
Document
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
101.LAB
		
	
Inline	XBRL	Taxonomy	Extension	Label	Linkbase
	
Document
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
101.PRE
		
	
Inline	XBRL	Taxonomy	Extension	Presentation
	
Linkbase	Document
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
	
—
		
	
X
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
104
		
	
Cover	Page	Interactive	Data	File	(formatted	as	inline
	
XBRL	with	applicable	taxonomy	extension	information
	
contained	in	Exhibits	101)
		
	
		
		
	
	
		
	
		
		
	
		
		
	
	
	
*	Furnished	herewith
**	Indicates	a	management	contract	or	compensatory	plan	or	arrangement
​	Confidential	treatment	has	been	requested	for	portions	of	this	exhibit
​​	Portions	of	this	exhibit	have	been	redacted	in	compliance	with	Regulation	S-K	Item	601(b)(10).
(1)	Indicates	a	filing	of	SolarCity
(2)	Indicates	a	filing	of	Maxwell	Technologies,	Inc.
	
ITEM	16.	
SUMMARY
None.
106	
SIGNATURES
Pursuant	to	the	requirements	of	Section	13	or	15(d)	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934,	the	registrant	has	duly	caused	this	report	to	be	signed
	
on	its	behalf	by	the	undersigned,	thereunto	duly	authorized.
		
	
	
Tesla,	Inc.
	
	
	
Date:	January	30,	2023
	
/s/	Elon	Musk
	
	
Elon	Musk
	
	
Chief	Executive	Officer
	
	
(Principal	Executive	Officer)
	
Pursuant	to	the	requirements	of	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934,	this	report	has	been	signed	below	by	the	following	persons	on	behalf	of	the
	
registrant	and	in	the	capacities	and	on	the	dates	indicated.
		
Signature
		
	
Title
		
Date
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Elon	Musk
		
	
Chief	Executive	Officer	and	Director	(Principal	Executive	Officer)
		
January	30,	2023
				Elon	Musk
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn
		
	
Chief	Financial	Officer	(Principal	Financial	Officer)
		
January	30,	2023
				Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Vaibhav	Taneja
		
	
Chief	Accounting	Officer	(Principal	Accounting	Officer)
		
January	30,	2023
				Vaibhav	Taneja
		
	
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Robyn	Denholm
		
	
Director
		
January	30,	2023
				Robyn	Denholm
		
	
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Ira	Ehrenpreis
		
	
Director
		
January	30,	2023
				Ira	Ehrenpreis
		
	
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Joseph	Gebbia
		
	
Director
		
January	30,	2023
				Joseph	Gebbia
		
	
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Hiromichi	Mizuno
		
	
Director
		
January	30,	2023
				Hiromichi	Mizuno
		
	
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	James	Murdoch
		
	
Director
		
January	30,	2023
				James	Murdoch
		
	
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Kimbal	Musk
		
	
Director
		
January	30,	2023
				Kimbal	Musk
		
	
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
/s/	Kathleen	Wilson-Thompson
		
	
Director
		
January	30,	2023
				Kathleen	Wilson-Thompson
		
	
		
		
		
	
107EX-10.59	
2	
tsla-ex10_59.htm	
EX-10.59
Exhibit	10.59
	
CREDIT	AGREEMENT,
dated	as	of
January	20,	2023,
among
TESLA,	INC.,
The	Lenders	and	Issuing	Banks	from	time	to	time	Party	Hereto,
CITIBANK,	N.A.,
as	Administrative	Agent
and
DEUTSCHE	BANK	SECURITIES	INC.,
	
as	Syndication	Agent
	
	
	
	
	
CITIBANK,	N.A.,	DEUTSCHE	BANK	SECURITIES	INC.,	CREDIT	AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,	GOLDMAN
	
SACHS	LENDING	PARTNERS	LLC,	HSBC	SECURITIES	(USA)	INC.,	MORGAN	STANLEY	SENIOR	FUNDING,	INC.,	SOCIÉTÉ
	
GÉNÉRALE,	TD	SECURITIES	(USA)	LLC
and
	
WELLS	FARGO	SECURITIES,	LLC,
as	Joint	Lead	Arrangers	and	Joint	Bookrunners	and
CREDIT	AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,	GOLDMAN	SACHS	BANK	USA,	HSBC	BANK	USA,	NATIONAL
	
ASSOCIATION,	MORGAN	STANLEY	SENIOR	FUNDING,	INC.,	SOCIÉTÉ	GÉNÉRALE,	THE	TORONTO-DOMINION	BANK,	NEW
	
YORK	BRANCH
	
and
WELLS	FARGO	BANK,	NATIONAL	ASSOCIATION,
as	Documentation	Agents
	
	
		
	
Table	of	Contents
		
		
		
		
Page
		
		
Article	I
	
Definitions
		
		
		
SECTION	1.01.
Defined	Terms
2
SECTION	1.02.
Classification	of	Loans	and	Borrowings
35
SECTION	1.03.
Terms	Generally
35
SECTION	1.04.
Accounting	Terms;	GAAP
36
SECTION	1.05.
Currency	Equivalents	Generally
36
SECTION	1.06.
Interest	Rates
36
SECTION	1.07.
Divisions
37
Article	II
	
The	Credits
		
		
		
SECTION	2.01.
Commitments
37
SECTION	2.02.
Loans	and	Borrowings
37
SECTION	2.03.
Requests	for	Borrowings
39
SECTION	2.04.
Letters	of	Credit.
40
SECTION	2.05.
Maturity	Date	Extension.
44
SECTION	2.06.
Funding	of	Borrowings
46
SECTION	2.07.
Interest	Elections
47
SECTION	2.08.
Termination	and	Reduction	of	Commitments
48
SECTION	2.09.
Repayment	of	Loans;	Evidence	of	Debt
48
SECTION	2.10.
Prepayment	of	Loans
49
SECTION	2.11.
Fees
49
SECTION	2.12.
Interest
50
SECTION	2.13.
Inability	to	Determine	Rates
51
SECTION	2.14.
Increased	Costs
52
SECTION	2.15.
Break	Funding	Payments
54
SECTION	2.16.
Taxes
54
SECTION	2.17.
Payments	Generally;	Pro	Rata	Treatment;	Sharing	of	Setoffs
						
57
SECTION	2.18.
Currency	Equivalents
58
SECTION	2.19.
Mitigation	Obligations;	Replacement	of	Lenders
58
SECTION	2.20.
Defaulting	Lenders
59
SECTION	2.21.
Benchmark	Replacement	Setting
62
SECTION	2.22.
Illegality
63
Article	III
	
Representations	and	Warranties
		
		
		
SECTION	3.01.
Organization;	Powers
64
SECTION	3.02.
Authorization;	Enforceability
64
SECTION	3.03.
Governmental	Approvals;	No	Conflicts
64
ii
		
SECTION	3.04.
Financial	Statements;	Financial	Condition;	No	Material	Adverse	Change
	
65
SECTION	3.05.
Litigation	and	Environmental	Matters
65
SECTION	3.06.
Compliance	with	Laws	and	Agreements
65
SECTION	3.07.
Investment	Company	Status
66
SECTION	3.08.
Taxes
66
SECTION	3.09.
ERISA
66
SECTION	3.10.
Disclosure
66
SECTION	3.11.
Federal	Regulations
66
SECTION	3.12.
Use	of	Proceeds
66
SECTION	3.13.
Anti-Corruption	Laws
67
SECTION	3.14.
Sanctions
67
SECTION	3.15.
Affected	Financial	Institutions
67
SECTION	3.16.
Plan	Assets;	Prohibited	Transactions
67
SECTION	3.17.
Employment	and	Labor	Relations
68
SECTION	3.18.
Intellectual	Property
68
Article	IV
	
Conditions
		
		
		
SECTION	4.01.
Effective	Date
68
SECTION	4.02.
Each	Credit	Event
70
Article	V
	
Affirmative	Covenants
		
		
		
SECTION	5.01.
Financial	Statements;	Other	Information
69
SECTION	5.02.
Notices	of	Material	Events
71
SECTION	5.03.
Existence;	Conduct	of	Business
72
SECTION	5.04.
Payment	of	Obligations
72
SECTION	5.05.
Maintenance	of	Properties;	Insurance
72
SECTION	5.06.
Books	and	Records;	Inspection	Rights
72
SECTION	5.07.
Compliance	with	Laws
73
SECTION	5.08.
Anti-Corruption	Laws	and	Sanctions
73
SECTION	5.09.
Further	Assurances.
73
SECTION	5.10.
ERISA
74
SECTION	5.11.
Use	of	Proceeds
75
Article	VI
Negative	Covenants
		
		
		
SECTION	6.01.
Minimum	Liquidity
74
SECTION	6.02.
Liens
74
SECTION	6.03.
Fundamental	Changes
76
SECTION	6.04.
Clauses	Restricting	Subsidiary	Distributions
76
SECTION	6.05.
Lines	of	Business
77
SECTION	6.06.
Transactions	with	Affiliates
78
SECTION	6.07.
Use	of	Proceeds
78
SECTION	6.08.
Subsidiary	Indebtedness
78
iii
		
Article	VII
	
Events	of	Default
		
		
		
SECTION	7.01.
Events	of	Default.
81
SECTION	7.02.
Application	of	Payments
84
Article	VIII
	
The	Administrative	Agent
		
		
		
SECTION	8.01.
Authorization	and	Action
85
SECTION	8.02.
Administrative	Agent
’
s	Reliance;	Limitation	of	Liability,	Etc
							
85
SECTION	8.03.
Successor	Administrative	Agent
86
SECTION	8.04.
Acknowledgements	of	Lenders	and	Issuing	Banks
86
SECTION	8.05.
Certain	ERISA	Matters
87
SECTION	8.06.
No	Fiduciary	Duty
88
SECTION	8.07.
Erroneous	Payments
88
Article	IX
	
Miscellaneous
		
		
		
SECTION	9.01.
Notices
91
SECTION	9.02.
Waivers;	Amendments
92
SECTION	9.03.
Expenses;	Indemnity;	Damage	Waiver
93
SECTION	9.04.
Successors	and	Assigns
95
SECTION	9.05.
Survival
99
SECTION	9.06.
Counterparts;	Integration;	Effectiveness
99
SECTION	9.07.
Severability
100
SECTION	9.08.
Right	of	Setoff
100
SECTION	9.09.
Governing	Law;	Jurisdiction;	Consent	to	Service	of	Process
							
100
SECTION	9.10.
WAIVER	OF	JURY	TRIAL
101
SECTION	9.11.
Headings
101
SECTION	9.12.
Confidentiality
101
SECTION	9.13.
USA	PATRIOT	Act;	Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation
	
102
SECTION	9.14.
Agreements	Respecting	Unrestricted	Subsidiaries
102
SECTION	9.15.
No	Fiduciary	Duty
103
SECTION	9.16.
Conversion	of	Currencies
103
SECTION	9.17.
Acknowledgement	and	Consent	to	Bail-In	of	Affected	Financial	Institutions,	Etc.
	
103
SECTION	9.18.
Acknowledgement	Regarding	Any	Supported	QFCs
104
SECTION	9.19.
Release	of	Guarantees.
104
SECTION	9.20.
Interest	Rate	Limitation
105
iv
		
SCHEDULES
:
	
	
	
	
	
Schedule	1.01
	
Commitments;	Letter	of	Credit	Commitments
Schedule	6.02
	
Existing	Liens
Schedule	6.08
	
Existing	Restricted	Subsidiary	Indebtedness
	
	
	
	
	
	
EXHIBITS
:
	
	
	
	
	
Exhibit	A
	
Form	of	Assignment	and	Assumption
Exhibit	B
	
Form	of	Borrower	Compliance	Certificate
Exhibit	C
	
Form	of	Commitment	Increase	Supplement
Exhibit	D
	
	
Form	of	Augmenting	Lender	Supplement
Exhibit	E
	
Form	of	Borrowing	Request
Exhibit	F
	
Form	of	Interest	Election	Request
Exhibit	G
	
Form	of	Promissory	Note
Exhibit	H
	
Form	of	Officer’s	Certificate	for	Designation	of	an	Unrestricted	Subsidiary
Exhibit	I-1
	
Form	of	U.S.	Tax	Compliance	Certificate
Exhibit	I-2
	
Form	of	U.S.	Tax	Compliance	Certificate
Exhibit	I-3
	
Form	of	U.S.	Tax	Compliance	Certificate
Exhibit	I-4
	
Form	of	U.S.	Tax	Compliance	Certificate
Exhibit	J
	
Form	of	Guarantee	Agreement
	
	
v
		
CREDIT	AGREEMENT,	dated	as	of	January	20,	2023,	among	TESLA,	INC.,	as	borrower,	the	LENDERS	and
	
ISSUING	BANKS	party	from	time	to	time	hereto,	CITIBANK,	N.A.,	as	Administrative	Agent,	DEUTSCHE	BANK	SECURITIES	INC.,
	
as	Syndication	Agent,	CITIBANK,	N.A.,	DEUTSCHE	BANK	SECURITIES	INC.,	CREDIT	AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND
	
INVESTMENT	BANK,	GOLDMAN	SACHS	LENDING	PARTNERS	LLC,	HSBC	SECURITIES	(USA)	INC.,	MORGAN	STANLEY
	
SENIOR	FUNDING,	INC.,	SOCIÉTÉ	GÉNÉRALE,	TD	SECURITIES	(USA)	LLC	and	WELLS	FARGO	SECURITIES,	LLC,	as	Joint	Lead
	
Arrangers	and	Joint	Bookrunners,	and	CREDIT	AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,	GOLDMAN	SACHS	BANK
	
USA,	HSBC	BANK	USA,	NATIONAL	ASSOCIATION,	MORGAN	STANLEY	SENIOR	FUNDING,	INC.,	SOCIÉTÉ	GÉNÉRALE,	THE
	
TORONTO-DOMINION	BANK,	NEW	YORK	BRANCH	and	WELLS	FARGO	BANK,	NATIONAL	ASSOCIATION,	as	Documentation
	
Agents.
The	parties	hereto	agree	as	follows:
Article	I
Definitions
SECTION	1.01.		
Defined	Terms
.		As	used	in	this	Agreement,	the	following	terms	have	the	meanings	specified
	
below:
“
ABR
”,	when	used	in	reference	to	any	Loan	or	Borrowing	denominated	in	Dollars	refers	to	whether	such	Loan,	or
	
the	Loans	comprising	such	Borrowing,	is	bearing	interest	at	a	rate	determined	by	reference	to	the	Alternate	Base	Rate.
“
Act
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	9.13
.
“
Additional	Lender
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.05(d)
.
“
Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate
”	means,	as	to	any	Borrowing	denominated	in	any	Euros	for	any	Interest	Period,	an
	
interest	rate	per	annum	equal	to	(a)	the	EURIBOR	Rate	for	such	Interest	Period,	
divided
	by	(b)	one,	
minus
	the	Statutory	Reserve
	
Percentage.
“
Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate
”	means,	for	purposes	of	any	calculation,	the	rate	per	annum	equal	to	(a)	Term	SOFR
	
for	such	calculation,	
plus
	(b)	0.10%;	
provided
	that,	if	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	as	so	determined	shall	ever	be	less	than	the
	
Floor,	then	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	Floor	for	purposes	of	this	Agreement.
“
Administrative	Agent
”	means	Citibank,	N.A.,	together	with	its	affiliates	acting	in	such	or	related	capacities,	as
	
the	administrative	agent	for	the	Lenders	under	this	Agreement,	together	with	any	of	its	successors	and	assigns.
“
Administrative	Questionnaire
”	means	an	Administrative	Questionnaire	in	a	form	supplied	by	or	otherwise
	
acceptable	to	the	Administrative	Agent.
“
Affected	Financial	Institution
”	means	(a)	any	EEA	Financial	Institution	or	(b)	any	UK	Financial	Institution.
	“
Affiliate
”	means,	with	respect	to	a	specified	Person,	another	Person	that	directly,	or	indirectly	through	one	or
	
more	intermediaries,	Controls	or	is	Controlled	by	or	is	under	common	Control	with	the	Person	specified.
“
Agreed	Currency
”	means	Dollars	and	each	Foreign	Currency.
“
Agreement
”	means	this	Credit	Agreement.
“
Agreement	Currency
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	9.16(b)
.
“
Alternate	Base	Rate
”	means,	for	any	day,	a	rate	per	annum	equal	to	the	greatest	of	(a)	the	Prime	Rate	in	effect
	
on	such	day,	(b)	the	NYFRB	Rate	in	effect	on	such	day,	
plus
	½	of	1%	and	(c)	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	for	a	one-month	tenor	in
	
effect	on	such	day,	
plus
	1%.		Any	change	in	the	Alternate	Base	Rate	due	to	a	change	in	the	Prime	Rate,	the	NYFRB	Rate	or	the
	
Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	shall	be	effective	from	and	including	the	effective	date	of	such	change	in	the	Prime	Rate,	the	NYFRB
	
Rate	or	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	respectively.		If	the	Alternate	Base	Rate	is	being	used	as	an	alternative	rate	of	interest
	
pursuant	to	
Section	2.21
	hereof,	then	the	Alternate	Base	Rate	shall	be	the	greater	of	
clauses	(a)
	and	
(b)
	above	and	shall	be
	
determined	without	reference	to	
clause	(c)
	above.		For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	if	the	Alternate	Base	Rate	as	so	determined	would
	
be	less	than	the	Floor,	such	rate	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	Floor	for	purposes	of	this	Agreement.
“
Anti-Corruption	Laws
”	means	all	laws,	rules	and	regulations	of	any	jurisdiction	applicable	to	the	Borrower	or	its
	
Affiliates	from	time	to	time	concerning	or	relating	to	bribery	or	corruption,	including,	but	not	limited	to,	the	Foreign	Corrupt
	
Practices	Act	of	1977	and	the	United	Kingdom	Bribery	Act	2010,	each	as	amended,	and	the	rules	and	regulations	thereunder.
“
Anti-Money	Laundering	Laws
”	means	all	laws,	statutes,	regulations	or	obligatory	government	orders,	decrees,
	
ordinances	or	rules,	in	each	case,	applicable	to	the	Borrower	or	its	Affiliates	from	time	to	time	concerning	or	relating	to	terrorism
	
financing	or	money	laundering,	including,	but	not	limited	to,	any	applicable	provision	of	the	Act	and	The	Currency	and	Foreign
	
Transactions	Reporting	Act	(also	known	as	the	“Bank	Secrecy	Act,”	31	U.S.C.	§§	5311-5330	and	12	U.S.C.	§§	1818(s),	1820(b)	and
	
1951-1959).
“
Applicable	Creditor
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	9.16(b)
.
“
Applicable	Percentage
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Lender,	the	percentage	of	the	total	Commitments
	
represented	by	such	Lender’s	Commitment;	
provided
	that	in	the	case	of	
Section	2.20
	when	a	Defaulting	Lender	shall	exist,
	
“Applicable	Percentage”	shall	mean	the	percentage	of	the	total	Commitments	(disregarding	any	Defaulting	Lender’s	Commitment)
	
represented	by	such	Lender’s	Commitment	under	the	Facility.		If	the	Commitments	have	terminated	or	expired,	the	Applicable
	
Percentages	shall	be	determined	based	upon	the	Commitments	most	recently	in	effect,	giving	effect	to	any	assignments	and	to	any
	
Lender’s	status	as	a	Defaulting	Lender	at	the	time	of	determination.
“
Applicable	Rate
”	means,	for	any	day,	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	SONIA	Loan	or	ABR	Loan,	or
	
with	respect	to	the	commitment	fees	payable	hereunder,	as	the	case	may	be,	the	applicable	rate	per	annum	set	forth	in	the	Pricing
	
Grid	under	the	caption	“Term	Benchmark	Spread/SONIA	Spread”,	“ABR	Spread”,	or	“Commitment	Fee	Rate”,	as	the	case	may	be,
	
based	upon	the	ratings	by	Moody’s	and	S&P,	respectively,	applicable	on	such	date	to	the	Index	Debt.
	
2
	“
Approved	Electronic	Platform
”	means	IntraLinks​,	DebtDomain,	SyndTrak,	ClearPar	or	any	other	electronic
	
platform	chosen	by	the	Administrative	Agent	to	be	its	electronic	transmission	system.
	
“
Approved	Fund
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	9.04(b)(ii)
.
“
Assignment	and	Assumption
”	means	an	assignment	and	assumption	entered	into	by	a	Lender	and	an	assignee
	
(with	the	consent	of	any	party	whose	consent	is	required	by	
Section	9.04
),	and	accepted	by	the	Administrative	Agent,	substantially
	
in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	A
	hereto	or	any	other	form	approved	by	the	Administrative	Agent.
“
Augmenting	Lender
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.02(e)
.
“
Authorized	Officer
”	means,	with	respect	to	(i)	delivering	a	Borrowing	Request,	an	Interest	Election	Request	and
	
similar	notices,	any	person	or	persons	that	has	or	have	been	authorized	by	the	board	of	directors	(or	equivalent	governing	body)	of
	
the	Borrower	to	deliver	such	notices	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	and	that	has	or	have	appropriate	signature	cards	or	certificates	of
	
incumbency	on	file	with	the	Administrative	Agent	or	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank,	(ii)	delivering	financial	information,	notices
	
pursuant	to	
Section	5.02
	and	officer’s	certificates	pursuant	to	this	Agreement,	the	chief	financial	officer,	the	vice	president	of
	
finance,	the	treasurer	(or	equivalent	officer	overseeing	the	Borrower’s	global	treasury	function)	or	the	principal	accounting	officer
	
of	the	Borrower	and	(iii)	any	other	matter	in	connection	with	this	Agreement	or	any	other	Loan	Document,	any	officer	(or	a	person
	
or	persons	so	designated	by	any	two	officers)	of	the	applicable	Loan	Party.
	
“
Availability	Period
”	means	the	period	from	and	including	the	Effective	Date	to	but	excluding	the	earlier	of	(a)	the
	
Maturity	Date	and	(b)	the	date	of	termination	of	all	of	the	Commitments.
“
Available	Tenor
”	means,	as	of	any	date	of	determination	and	with	respect	to	the	then-current	Benchmark	for	any
	
Agreed	Currency,	as	applicable,	(x)	if	such	Benchmark	is	a	term	rate,	any	tenor	for	such	Benchmark	(or	component	thereof)	that	is
	
or	may	be	used	for	determining	the	length	of	an	Interest	Period	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	or	(y)	otherwise,	any	payment	period
	
for	interest	calculated	with	reference	to	such	Benchmark	(or	component	thereof)	that	is	or	may	be	used	for	determining	any
	
frequency	of	making	payments	of	interest	calculated	with	reference	to	such	Benchmark	pursuant	to	this	Agreement,	in	each	case,
	
as	of	such	date	and	not	including,	for	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	any	tenor	for	such	Benchmark	that	is	then-removed	from	the
	
definition	of	“Interest	Period”	pursuant	to	
Section	2.21(d)
.
“
Bail-In	Action
”	means	the	exercise	of	any	Write-Down	and	Conversion	Powers	by	the	applicable	Resolution
	
Authority	in	respect	of	any	liability	of	an	Affected	Financial	Institution.
“
Bail-In	Legislation
”	means,	(a)	with	respect	to	any	EEA	Member	Country	implementing	Article	55	of	Directive
	
2014/59/EU	of	the	European	Parliament	and	of	the	Council	of	the	European	Union,	the	implementing	law,	regulation	rule	or
	
requirement	for	such	EEA	Member	Country	from	time	to	time	which	is	described	in	the	EU	Bail-In	Legislation	Schedule	and	(b)
	
with	respect	to	the	United	Kingdom,	Part	I	of	the	United	Kingdom	Banking	Act	2009	(as	amended	from	time	to	time)	and	any	other
	
law,	regulation	or	rule	applicable	in	the	United	Kingdom	relating	to	the	resolution	of	unsound	or	failing	banks,	investment	firms	or
	
other	financial	institutions	or	their	affiliates	(other	than	through	liquidation,	administration	or	other	insolvency	proceedings).
“
Basel	III
”	means,	collectively,	those	certain	agreements	on	capital	and	liquidity	standards	contained	in	“Basel	III:
	
A	Global	Regulatory	Framework	for	More	Resilient	Banks	and	Banking	Systems”,	“Basel	III:	International	Framework	for	Liquidity
	
Risk	Measurement,	Standards	and
	
3
	Monitoring”,	and	“Guidance	for	National	Authorities	Operating	the	Countercyclical	Capital	Buffer”,	each	as	published	by	the	Basel
	
Committee	on	Banking	Supervision	in	December	2010	(as	revised	from	time	to	time),	and	“Basel	III:	The	Liquidity	Coverage	Ratio
	
and	Liquidity	Risk	Monitoring	Tools”,	as	published	by	the	Basel	Committee	on	Banking	Supervision	in	January	2013	(as	revised
	
from	time	to	time).
“
Benchmark
”	means,	initially,	with	respect	to	any	Obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts
	
denominated	in,	or	calculated	with	respect	to,	Dollars	or	a	Foreign	Currency,	the	applicable	Relevant	Rate;	
provided
	that,	if	a
	
Benchmark	Transition	Event	has	occurred	with	respect	to	such	Relevant	Rate	or	the	then-current	Benchmark	for	such	Agreed
	
Currency,	then	“Benchmark”	means,	with	respect	to	such	Obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts,	the	applicable
	
Benchmark	Replacement	to	the	extent	that	such	Benchmark	Replacement	has	replaced	such	prior	benchmark	rate	pursuant	to
	
Section	2.21(a)
.
“
Benchmark	Replacement
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Benchmark	Transition	Event	for	any	then-current
	
Benchmark,	the	sum	of:	(a)	the	alternate	benchmark	rate	that	has	been	selected	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower	as
	
the	replacement	for	such	Benchmark	giving	due	consideration	to	(i)	any	selection	or	recommendation	of	a	replacement	benchmark
	
rate	or	the	mechanism	for	determining	such	a	rate	by	the	Relevant	Governmental	Body	or	(ii)	any	evolving	or	then-prevailing
	
market	convention	for	determining	a	benchmark	rate	as	a	replacement	for	such	Benchmark	for	syndicated	credit	facilities
	
denominated	in	the	applicable	Agreed	Currency	at	such	time	and	(b)	the	related	Benchmark	Replacement	Adjustment,	if	any;
	
provided
	that,	if	such	Benchmark	Replacement	as	so	determined	would	be	less	than	the	Floor,	such	Benchmark	Replacement	will
	
be	deemed	to	be	the	Floor	for	the	purposes	of	this	Agreement	and	the	other	Loan	Documents.
“
Benchmark	Replacement	Adjustment
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	replacement	of	any	then-current	Benchmark
	
with	an	Unadjusted	Benchmark	Replacement,	the	spread	adjustment,	or	method	for	calculating	or	determining	such	spread
	
adjustment,	(which	may	be	a	positive	or	negative	value	or	zero)	that	has	been	selected	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the
	
Borrower	giving	due	consideration	to	(a)	any	selection	or	recommendation	of	a	spread	adjustment,	or	method	for	calculating	or
	
determining	such	spread	adjustment,	for	the	replacement	of	such	Benchmark	with	the	applicable	Unadjusted	Benchmark
	
Replacement	by	the	Relevant	Governmental	Body	or	(b)	any	evolving	or	then-prevailing	market	convention	for	determining	a	spread
	
adjustment,	or	method	for	calculating	or	determining	such	spread	adjustment,	for	the	replacement	of	such	Benchmark	with	the
	
applicable	Unadjusted	Benchmark	Replacement	for	syndicated	credit	facilities	denominated	in	the	applicable	Agreed	Currency	at
	
such	time.
“
Benchmark	Replacement	Date
”	means	the	earliest	to	occur	of	the	following	events	with	respect	to	the	then-
current	Benchmark	for	any	Agreed	Currency:
(a)
in	the	case	of	
clauses	(a)
	or	
(b)
	of	the	definition	of	“Benchmark	Transition	Event”,	the	later	of	(i)	the	date	of
	
the	public	statement	or	publication	of	information	referenced	therein	and	(ii)	the	date	on	which	the
	
administrator	of	such	Benchmark	(or	the	published	component	used	in	the	calculation	thereof)	permanently
	
or	indefinitely	ceases	to	provide	all	Available	Tenors	of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component	thereof);	or
(b)
in	the	case	of	
clause	(c)
	of	the	definition	of	“Benchmark	Transition	Event”,	the	first	date	on	which	such
	
Benchmark	(or	the	published	component	used	in	the	calculation	thereof)	has	been	determined	and	announced
	
by	the	regulatory	supervisor	for	the	administrator	of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component	thereof)	to	be	non-
representative;	
provided
	that	such	non-representativeness	will	be	determined	by	reference	to	the	most	recent
	
statement	or	publication	referenced	in	such	
clause	(c)
	and	even	if	any	Available	Tenor	of	such	Benchmark	(or
	
such	component	thereof)	continues	to	be	provided	on	such	date.
4
	For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	the	“Benchmark	Replacement	Date”	will	be	deemed	to	have	occurred	in	the	case	of	
clauses	(a)
	or	
(b)
	
with	respect	to	any	Benchmark	upon	the	occurrence	of	the	applicable	event	or	events	set	forth	therein	with	respect	to	all	then-
current	Available	Tenors	of	such	Benchmark	(or	the	published	component	used	in	the	calculation	thereof).
“
Benchmark	Transition	Event
”	means,	with	respect	to	the	then-current	Benchmark	for	any	Agreed	Currency,	the
	
occurrence	of	one	or	more	of	the	following	events	with	respect	to	such	Benchmark:
(a)
a	public	statement	or	publication	of	information	by	or	on	behalf	of	the	administrator	of	such	Benchmark	(or
	
the	published	component	used	in	the	calculation	thereof)	announcing	that	such	administrator	has	ceased	or
	
will	cease	to	provide	all	Available	Tenors	of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component	thereof),	permanently	or
	
indefinitely;	
provided
	that	at	the	time	of	such	statement	or	publication,	there	is	no	successor	administrator
	
that	will	continue	to	provide	any	Available	Tenor	of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component	thereof);
(b)
a	public	statement	or	publication	of	information	by	the	regulatory	supervisor	for	the	administrator	of	such
	
Benchmark	(or	the	published	component	used	in	the	calculation	thereof),	the	Federal	Reserve	Board,	the
	
Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	New	York,	the	central	bank	for	the	Agreed	Currency	applicable	to	such	Benchmark,
	
an	insolvency	official	with	jurisdiction	over	the	administrator	for	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component),	a
	
resolution	authority	with	jurisdiction	over	the	administrator	for	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component)	or	a
	
court	or	an	entity	with	similar	insolvency	or	resolution	authority	over	the	administrator	for	such	Benchmark
	
(or	such	component),	which	states	that	the	administrator	of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component)	has	ceased
	
or	will	cease	to	provide	all	Available	Tenors	of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component	thereof)	permanently	or
	
indefinitely;	
provided
	that	at	the	time	of	such	statement	or	publication,	there	is	no	successor	administrator
	
that	will	continue	to	provide	any	Available	Tenor	of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component	thereof);	or
(c)
a	public	statement	or	publication	of	information	by	the	regulatory	supervisor	for	the	administrator	of	such
	
Benchmark	(or	the	published	component	used	in	the	calculation	thereof)	announcing	that	all	Available	Tenors
	
of	such	Benchmark	(or	such	component	thereof)	are	not,	or	as	of	a	specified	future	date	will	not	be,
	
representative.
For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	a	“Benchmark	Transition	Event”	will	be	deemed	to	have	occurred	with	respect	to	any	Benchmark	if	a
	
public	statement	or	publication	of	information	set	forth	above	has	occurred	with	respect	to	each	then-current	Available	Tenor	of
	
such	Benchmark	(or	the	published	component	used	in	the	calculation	thereof).
“
Benchmark	Transition	Start	Date
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Benchmark,	in	the	case	of	a	Benchmark	Transition
	
Event,	the	earlier	of	(a)	the	applicable	Benchmark	Replacement	Date	and	(b)	if	such	Benchmark	Transition	Event	is	a	public
	
statement	or	publication	of	information	of	a	prospective	event,	the	90th	day	prior	to	the	expected	date	of	such	event	as	of	such
	
public	statement	or	publication	of	information	(or	if	the	expected	date	of	such	prospective	event	is	fewer	than	ninety	(90)	days	after
	
such	statement	or	publication,	the	date	of	such	statement	or	publication).
“
Benchmark	Unavailability	Period
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	then-current	Benchmark	for	any	Agreed	Currency,
	
the	period	(if	any)	(a)	beginning	at	the	time	that	a	Benchmark	Replacement	Date	with	respect	to	such	Benchmark	has	occurred	if,
	
at	such	time,	no	Benchmark	Replacement	has
	
5
	replaced	such	Benchmark	for	all	purposes	hereunder	and	under	any	Loan	Document	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.21
	and	(b)	ending
	
at	the	time	that	a	Benchmark	Replacement	has	replaced	such	Benchmark	for	all	purposes	hereunder	and	under	any	Loan	Document
	
in	accordance	with	
Section	2.21
.
“
Beneficial	Ownership	Certification
”	means	a	certification	regarding	beneficial	ownership	or	control	as	required
	
by	the	Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation.
“
Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation
”	means	31	C.F.R.	§	1010.230.
“
Benefit	Plan
”	means	any	of	(a)	an	“employee	benefit	plan”	(as	defined	in	Section	3(3)	of	ERISA)	that	is	subject	to
	
Title	I	of	ERISA,	(b)	a	“plan”	as	defined	in	Section	4975	of	the	Code	to	which	Section	4975	of	the	Code	applied	and	(c)	any	Person
	
whose	assets	include	(for	purposes	of	the	Plan	Asset	Regulations	or	otherwise	for	purposes	of	Title	I	of	ERISA	or	Section	4975	of
	
the	Code)	the	assets	of	any	such	“employee	benefit	plan”	or	“plan”.
“
BHC	Act	Affiliate
”	of	a	party	means	an	“affiliate”	(as	such	term	is	defined	under,	and	interpreted	in	accordance
	
with,	12	U.S.C.	1841(k))	of	such	party.
“
Board
”	means	the	Board	of	Governors	of	the	Federal	Reserve	System	of	the	United	States	of	America.
“
Borrower
”	means	Tesla,	Inc.,	a	Delaware	corporation.
“
Borrowing
”	means	Loans	of	the	same	Type,	denominated	in	the	same	currency,	made,	converted	or	continued	on
	
the	same	date	and,	if	applicable,	as	to	which	a	single	Interest	Period	is	in	effect.
“
Borrowing	Request
”	means	a	request	by	the	Borrower	for	a	Borrowing	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.03
,	which
	
shall	be	substantially	in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	E
	hereto	or	any	other	form	approved	by	the	Administrative	Agent.
“
Business	Day
”	means	any	day	that	is	not	a	Saturday,	Sunday	or	other	day	on	which	commercial	banks	in	New
	
York	City,	New	York,	are	authorized	or	required	by	law	to	remain	closed;	
provided
	that	(i)	when	used	in	connection	with	Loans
	
denominated	in	Pounds	Sterling	and	the	calculation	or	computation	of	SONIA,	the	term	“Business	Day”	shall	mean	SONIA	Business
	
Day,	(ii)	when	used	in	connection	with	any	Loans	denominated	in	Euros,	the	term	“Business	Day”	shall	exclude	any	day	which	is	not
	
a	TARGET	Day	and	(iii)	when	used	in	connection	with	any	Term	Benchmark	Loans	denominated	in	Dollars,	such	day	shall	also	be	a
	
U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Day.
“
Calculation	Date
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Foreign	Currency,	the	last	day	of	each	calendar	month	(or,	if	such
	
day	is	not	a	Business	Day,	the	next	succeeding	Business	Day)	and	any	other	day	during	the	continuation	of	a	Default	that	the
	
Administrative	Agent	may	designate	as	a	“Calculation	Date”;	
provided
	that	the	date	of	issuance	of	any	Borrowing	Request	pursuant
	
to	
Section	2.03
	with	respect	to,	and	each	date	of	any	continuation	of,	any	Loan	denominated	in	a	Foreign	Currency,	shall	also	be	a
	
“Calculation	Date”	with	respect	to	such	Foreign	Currency.
“
Capital	Lease	Obligations
”	of	any	Person	means	the	obligations	of	such	Person	to	pay	rent	or	other	amounts
	
under	any	lease	of	(or	other	arrangement	conveying	the	right	to	use)	real	or	tangible	personal	property,	or	a	combination	thereof,
	
which	obligations	are	required	to	be	classified	and	accounted	for	as	financing	leases	on	a	balance	sheet	of	such	Person	under
	
GAAP,	and	the	amount	of	such	obligations	shall	be	the	capitalized	amount	thereof	determined	in	accordance	with	GAAP;	
provided
	
that,	notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	contained	in	
Section	1.04(a)
,	any	change	in	GAAP	after
	
6
	December	31,	2018	that	would	require	obligations	that	would	be	classified	and	accounted	for	as	operating	leases	under	GAAP	as
	
existing	on	December	31,	2018	to	be	classified	and	accounted	for	as	capital	leases	or	otherwise	reflected	on	the	consolidated
	
balance	sheet	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Subsidiaries,	such	obligations	shall	continue	to	be	treated	as	an	operating	leases	for	all
	
purposes	under	this	Agreement.
“
Captive	Insurance	Subsidiary
”	means	a	Subsidiary	established	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries	for	the
	
sole	purpose	of	insuring	the	business,	facilities,	employees,	officers	and/or	directors	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Subsidiaries.
“
CFC
”	means	a	“controlled	foreign	corporation”	within	the	meaning	of	Section	957(a)	of	the	Code.
“
CFC	Holdco
”	means	any	(i)	Domestic	Subsidiary	or	(ii)	Foreign	Subsidiary	that	is	a	“disregarded	entity”	for	U.S.
	
federal	income	tax	purposes,	in	each	case	that	owns	(directly	or	indirectly)	no	material	assets	other	than	cash	or	cash	accounts	and
	
equity	interests	(or	equity	interests	and	indebtedness),	each	as	determined	for	U.S.	federal	income	tax	purposes,	of	one	or	more	(a)
	
Foreign	Subsidiaries	that	are	CFCs	or	(b)	subsidiaries	that	themselves	are	CFC	Holdcos.
“
Change	in	Control
”	means	the	acquisition	of	ownership,	directly	or	indirectly,	beneficially	or	of	record,	by	any
	
Person	or	group	(within	the	meaning	of	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934	and	the	rules	of	the	Securities	and	Exchange
	
Commission	thereunder	as	in	effect	on	the	date	hereof)	other	than	a	Permitted	Holder,	of	Equity	Interests	of	Borrower	representing
	
more	than	50%	of	the	aggregate	ordinary	voting	power	represented	by	the	issued	and	outstanding	Equity	Interests	of	the	Borrower.
“
Change	in	Law
”	means	(a)	the	adoption	of	any	law,	rule	or	regulation	after	the	date	of	this	Agreement,	(b)	any
	
change	in	any	law,	rule	or	regulation	or	in	the	interpretation	or	application	thereof	by	any	Governmental	Authority	after	the	date	of
	
this	Agreement	or	(c)	compliance	by	any	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	(or,	for	purposes	of	
Section	2.14(b)
,	by	any	lending	office	of	such
	
Lender	or	by	such	Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s	holding	company,	if	any)	with	any	request,	guideline	or	directive	(whether	or	not
	
having	the	force	of	law)	of	any	Governmental	Authority	made	or	issued	after	the	date	of	this	Agreement;	
provided
	that,
	
notwithstanding	anything	herein	to	the	contrary,	(i)	the	Dodd-Frank	Wall	Street	Reform	and	Consumer	Protection	Act	and	all
	
requests,	rule,	guidelines,	requirements	and	directives	thereunder,	issued	in	connection	therewith	or	in	implementation	thereof	and
	
(ii)	all	requests,	rules,	guidelines,	requirements	and	directives	promulgated	by	the	Bank	for	International	Settlements,	the	Basel
	
Committee	on	Banking	Supervision	(or	any	successor	or	similar	authority)	or	the	United	States	or	foreign	regulatory	authorities,	in
	
each	case	pursuant	to	Basel	III,	shall	in	each	case	be	deemed	to	be	a	“Change	in	Law”,	regardless	of	the	date	enacted,	adopted,
	
issued	or	implemented.
“
Charges
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	9.20
.
“
Charging	Agreements
”	means	(i)	electric	vehicle	charging	station	related	agreements,	including	lease	and
	
license	agreements	and	all	associated	real	property	and	other	rights	provided	in	the	applicable	agreement,	(ii)	agreements	and
	
other	rights	related	to	customer	accounts,	payments	and	data;	equipment	lease	agreements	entered	into	with	a	customer	pursuant
	
to	which	such	customer	agrees	to	lease	a	Charging	System,	and	all	rights	related	thereto	and	(iii)	agreements	to	provide	vehicle
	
charging	related	services	such	as	equipment	installation,	equipment	maintenance	or	customer	billing	service.
“
Charging	Assets
”	means	(i)	Charging	Systems,	(ii)	Charging	Agreements,	(iii)	Equity	Interests	in	Excluded
	
Charging	Subsidiaries	and	(iv)	Vehicle	Environmental	Attributes.
7
	“
Charging	Systems
”	means	all	parts	of	an	electric	vehicle	charging	station,	including	charge	posts,	charging
	
connectors,	power	electronics	equipment,	switchgear,	conduit,	wiring,	metering	equipment,	concrete	pads,	signage,	fences	or
	
visual	barriers,	mobile	charging	stations,	canopies,	solar	panels,	energy	storage	systems	and	other	related	equipment.
“
Code
”	means	the	Internal	Revenue	Code	of	1986,	as	amended.
“
Commitment
”	means,	with	respect	to	each	Lender,	the	commitment	of	such	Lender	to	make	Loans	and	to	acquire
	
participations	in	Letters	of	Credit	hereunder	as	set	forth	on	
Schedule	1.01
	as	its	“Commitment”,	or	in	the	Assignment	and
	
Assumption	pursuant	to	which	such	Lender	shall	have	assumed	its	Commitment,	or	in	the	documentation	pursuant	to	which	such
	
Lender	became	a	party	hereto	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.02(e)
,	as	applicable,	in	each	case	as	it	may	be	(a)	reduced	from	time	to
	
time	pursuant	to	
Section	2.08
,	(b)	reduced	or	increased	from	time	to	time	pursuant	to	assignments	by	or	to	such	Lender	pursuant	to
	
Section	9.04
	and	(c)	increased	from	time	to	time	pursuant	to	
Section	2.02(e)
.		The	initial	aggregate	amount	of	the	Lenders’
	
Commitments	as	of	the	Effective	Date	is	USD$5,000,000,000.
“
Conforming	Changes
”	means,	with	respect	to	either	the	use	or	administration	of	an	initial	Benchmark	or	the	use,
	
administration,	adoption	or	implementation	of	any	Benchmark	Replacement,	any	technical,	administrative	or	operational	changes
	
(including	changes	to	the	definition	of	“ABR”	(if	applicable),	the	definition	of	“Business	Day,”	the	definition	of	“SONIA	Business
	
Day,”	the	definition	of	“U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Day”,	the	definition	of	“Interest	Period”	or	any	similar	or	analogous
	
definition	(or	the	addition	of	a	concept	of	“interest	period”),	timing	and	frequency	of	determining	rates	and	making	payments	of
	
interest,	timing	of	borrowing	requests	or	prepayment,	conversion	or	continuation	notices,	the	applicability	and	length	of	lookback
	
periods,	the	applicability	of	
Section	2.15
	and	other	technical,	administrative	or	operational	matters)	that	the	Administrative	Agent
	
decides	may	be	appropriate	to	reflect	the	adoption	and	implementation	of	any	such	rate	or	to	permit	the	use	and	administration
	
thereof	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	a	manner	substantially	consistent	with	market	practice	(or,	if	the	Administrative	Agent
	
decides	that	adoption	of	any	portion	of	such	market	practice	is	not	administratively	feasible	or	if	the	Administrative	Agent
	
determines	that	no	market	practice	for	the	administration	of	any	such	rate	exists,	in	such	other	manner	of	administration	as	the
	
Administrative	Agent	decides	is	reasonably	necessary	in	connection	with	the	administration	of	this	Agreement	and	the	other	Loan
	
Documents).
“
Consolidated	Liquidity
”	means,	as	of	any	date	of	determination,	the	sum	of	(a)	the	Total	Available	Commitments
	
at	such	date,	
plus
	(b)	total	cash	(other	than	restricted	cash),	cash	equivalents	and	Marketable	Securities	of	the	Borrower	and	its
	
Domestic	Subsidiaries	that	are	Restricted	Subsidiaries	as	determined	by	the	Borrower	based	on	adjustments	to	the	amount	of	total
	
cash	(other	than	restricted	cash),	cash	equivalents	and	Marketable	Securities,	as	reported	in	the	Borrower’s	most	recent	Annual
	
Report	on	Form	10-K	or	Quarterly	Report	on	Form	10-Q,	as	applicable,	filed	with	SEC.
“
Consolidated	Net	Tangible	Assets
”	means	the	aggregate	amount	of	the	Borrower’s	and	the	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries’	consolidated	assets	(less	applicable	reserves	and	other	properly	deductible	items),	after	deducting	therefrom	(i)	all
	
current	liabilities	and	(ii)	all	goodwill,	trade	names,	trademarks,	patents,	unamortized	debt	discount	and	expense	and	other	like
	
intangibles	all	as	set	forth	on	the	Borrower’s	most	recent	audited	consolidated	balance	sheet	prepared	in	accordance	with	GAAP.
“
Consolidated	Subsidiaries
”	means,	as	of	any	date,	all	Subsidiaries	of	the	Borrower	to	the	extent	the	accounts	of
	
such	Person	are	consolidated	with	the	accounts	of	the	Borrower	as	of	such	date	in	accordance	with	the	principles	of	consolidation
	
reflected	in	the	audited	financial	statements	most	recently	delivered	in	accordance	with	this	Agreement.
8
	“
Consolidated	Total	Assets
”	means,	at	any	time	of	determination	thereof,	the	aggregate	amount	of	all	assets	of	the
	
Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	as	set	forth	in	the	most	recent	consolidated	balance	sheet	of	the	Borrower	and	its
	
Consolidated	Subsidiaries	delivered	to	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	and	computed	in	accordance	with	GAAP.
“
Control
”	means	the	possession,	directly	or	indirectly,	of	the	power	to	direct	or	cause	the	direction	of	the
	
management	or	policies	of	a	Person,	whether	through	the	ability	to	exercise	voting	power,	by	contract	or	otherwise.		“
Controlled
”
	
has	a	meaning	correlative	thereto.
“
Covered	Entity
”	means	any	of	the	following:
(i)	a	“covered	entity”	as	that	term	is	defined	in,	and	interpreted	in	accordance	with,	12	C.F.R.	§	252.82(b);
(ii)	a	“covered	bank”	as	that	term	is	defined	in,	and	interpreted	in	accordance	with,	12	C.F.R.	§	47.3(b);	or
(iii)	a	“covered	FSI”	as	that	term	is	defined	in,	and	interpreted	in	accordance	with,	12	C.F.R.	§	382.2(b).
“
Covered	Party
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	9.18
.
	“
Credit	Exposure
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Lender	at	any	time,	the	sum	of	such	Lender’s	Revolving	Credit
	
Exposure	and	its	LC	Exposure.
“
Customer	Lease	Agreement
”	means	a	lease	agreement	entered	into	with	a	customer,	pursuant	to	which	such
	
customer	agrees	to	lease	an	Energy	Storage	System.
“
Daily	Simple	SONIA
”	means,	for	any	day	(a	“
SONIA	Rate	Day
”),	a	rate	per	annum	equal	to,	for	any	Obligations,
	
interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts	denominated	in,	or	calculated	with	respect	to	Pounds	Sterling,	the	greater	of	(i)
	
SONIA	for	the	day	(such	day,	a	“
Sterling	Determination	Day
”)	that	is	five	(5)	SONIA	Business	Days	prior	to	(A)	if	such	SONIA	Rate
	
Day	is	a	SONIA	Business	Day,	such	SONIA	Rate	Day	or	(B)	if	such	SONIA	Rate	Day	is	not	a	SONIA	Business	Day,	the	SONIA
	
Business	Day	immediately	preceding	such	SONIA	Rate	Day,	in	each	case,	as	such	SONIA	is	published	by	the	SONIA	Administrator
	
on	the	SONIA	Administrator’s	Website;	
provided
	that,	if	by	5:00	p.m.	(London	time)	on	the	second	(2
nd
)	SONIA	Business	Day
	
immediately	following	any	Sterling	Determination	Day,	SONIA	in	respect	of	such	Sterling	Determination	Day	has	not	been
	
published	on	the	SONIA	Administrator’s	Website	and	a	Benchmark	Replacement	Date	with	respect	to	Daily	Simple	SONIA	has	not
	
occurred,	then	SONIA	for	such	Sterling	Determination	Day	will	be	SONIA	as	published	in	respect	of	the	first	(1
st
)	preceding	SONIA
	
Business	Day	for	which	such	SONIA	was	published	on	the	SONIA	Administrator’s	Website;	
provided
,	
further
,	that	SONIA	as
	
determined	pursuant	to	this	proviso	shall	be	utilized	for	purposes	of	calculation	of	Daily	Simple	SONIA	for	no	more	than	three
	
consecutive	SONIA	Rate	Days	and	(ii)	the	Floor.	Any	change	in	Daily	Simple	SONIA	due	to	a	change	in	SONIA	shall	be	effective
	
from	and	including	the	effective	date	of	such	change	in	SONIA	without	notice	to	the	Borrower.
“
Default
”	means	any	event	or	condition	that	constitutes	an	Event	of	Default	or	that	upon	notice,	lapse	of	time	or
	
both	would,	unless	cured	or	waived,	become	an	Event	of	Default.
“
Default	Right
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	that	term	in,	and	shall	be	interpreted	in	accordance	with,	12	C.F.R.
	
§§	252.81,	47.2	or	382.1,	as	applicable.
9
	“
Defaulting	Lender
”	means	any	Lender	that	has	(a)	failed	to	fund	any	portion	of	its	Loans	or	participations	in
	
Letters	of	Credit	required	to	be	funded	by	it	hereunder	within	three	(3)	Business	Days	of	the	date	required	to	be	funded	by	it
	
hereunder	unless	such	Lender	notifies	the	Administrative	Agent	in	writing	that	such	failure	is	the	result	of	such	Lender’s	good	faith
	
determination	that	a	condition	precedent	to	funding	(specifically	identified	in	writing	and	with	supporting	facts)	has	not	been
	
satisfied,	(b)	notified	the	Borrower,	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender	in	writing,	or	has	made	a	public	statement	to	the	effect
	
that	it	does	not	intend	or	expect	to	comply	with	any	of	its	funding	obligations	under	this	Agreement	(unless	such	writing	or	public
	
statement	states	that	such	position	is	based	on	such	Lender’s	good	faith	determination	that	a	condition	precedent	to	funding	a	loan
	
under	this	Agreement	cannot	be	met)	or	generally	under	other	agreements	in	which	it	commits	to	extend	credit,	(c)	failed,	within
	
three	(3)	Business	Days	after	a	request	in	writing	by	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Issuing	Bank	or	the	Borrower,	acting	in	good
	
faith,	to	provide	a	certification	in	writing	from	an	authorized	officer	of	such	Lender	that	it	will	comply	with	its	obligations	to	fund
	
prospective	Loans	and	participations	in	then	outstanding	Letters	of	Credit	under	this	Agreement:	
provided
	that	such	Lender	shall
	
cease	to	be	Defaulting	Lender	pursuant	to	this	
clause	(c)
	upon	the	Administrative	Agent’s,	such	Issuing	Bank’s	or	Borrower’s
	
receipt	of	such	certification,	(d)	has
	
become	the	subject	of	a	bankruptcy	or	insolvency	proceeding,	or	has	had	a	receiver,
	
conservator,	trustee,	administrator,	assignee	for	the	benefit	of	creditors	or	similar	Person	charged	with	reorganization	or
	
liquidation	of	its	business	or	assets	(including	the	Federal	Deposit	Insurance	Corporation	or	any	other	state	or	federal	regulatory
	
authority	acting	in	such	a	capacity)	or	custodian	appointed	for	it,	or	has	taken	any	action	in	furtherance	of,	or	indicating	its	consent
	
to,	approval	of	or	acquiescence	in	any	such	proceeding	or	appointment	or	has	a	parent	company	that	has	become	the	subject	of	a
	
bankruptcy	or	insolvency	proceeding,	or	has	had	a	receiver,	conservator,	trustee,	administrator,	assignee	for	the	benefit	of
	
creditors	or	similar	Person	charged	with	reorganization	or	liquidation	of	its	business	or	assets	(including	the	Federal	Deposit
	
Insurance	Corporation	or	any	other	state	or	federal	regulatory	authority	acting	in	such	a	capacity),	or	custodian	appointed	for	it,	or
	
has	taken	any	action	in	furtherance	of,	or	indicating	its	consent	to,	approval	of	or	acquiescence	in	any	such	proceeding	or
	
appointment,	(e)	has,	or	has	a	direct	or	indirect	parent	company	that	has,	become	the	subject	of	a	Bail-In	Action;	
provided
	that	a
	
Lender	shall	not	be	a	Defaulting	Lender	solely	by	virtue	of	the	ownership	or	acquisition	of	any	Equity	Interest	in	such	Lender	or	a
	
parent	company	thereof	by	a	Governmental	Authority	or	an	instrumentality	thereof;	
provided
,	
further
,	that	such	ownership	or
	
interest	by	a	Governmental	Authority	does	not	result	in	or	provide	such	Lender	or	a	parent	company	thereof	with	immunity	from
	
the	jurisdiction	of	courts	within	the	United	States	or	from	the	enforcement	of	judgments	or	writs	of	attachment	on	its	assets	or
	
permit	such	Governmental	Authority	to	reject,	repudiate,	disavow	or	disaffirm	any	contracts	or	agreements	made	by	such	Lender	or
	
a	parent	company	thereof	or	(f)	otherwise	failed	to	pay	over	to	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	other	Lender	any	other	amount
	
required	to	be	paid	by	it	hereunder	within	three	(3)	Business	Days	of	the	date	when	due,	unless	such	requirement	to	pay	is	the
	
subject	of	a	good	faith	dispute.	Any	determination	by	the	Administrative	Agent	that	a	Lender	is	a	Defaulting	Lender	under	any	one
	
or	more	of	
clauses	(a)
	through	
(f)
	above	shall	be	conclusive	and	binding	absent	manifest	error.
“
Disclosed	Matters
”	means	the	actions,	suits	and	proceedings	and,	to	the	extent	disclosed	pursuant	to	Item	103	of
	
Regulation	S-K,	the	environmental	proceedings,	disclosed	in	(a)	the	Borrower’s	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	for	the	year	ended
	
December	31,	2021,	(b)	all	other	Quarterly	Reports	on	Form	10-Q	and	Current	Reports	on	Form	8-K	and,	in	each	case,	filed	by	the
	
Borrower	with	the	SEC	since	January	1,	2022	and	prior	to	the	Effective	Date	which	have	been	posted	on	the	website	of	the	SEC	at
	
www.sec.gov	and	(c)	any	other	information	generally	made	available	by	the	Borrower	to	the	public	through	the	issuance	of	a	press
	
release	or	posting	to	the	Borrower’s	website	since	the	Borrower’s	most	recent	Quarterly	Report	on	Form	10-Q	filed	by	the	Borrower
	
with	the	SEC.
10
	“
Discretionary	Guarantor
”	means	any	Domestic	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	that	the	Borrower,	in	its
	
sole	discretion	elects	to	cause	to	be	a	Guarantor	by	providing	a	Guarantee	in	respect	of	the	Obligations.
“
Disqualified	Institution
”	means,	on	any	date,	(a)	any	Person	designated	by	the	Borrower	as	a	“Disqualified
	
Institution”	by	written	notice	delivered	to	the	Administrative	Agent	on	or	prior	to	the	date	hereof	and	(b)	any	other	Person	that	is	a
	
reasonably	identifiable	competitor	of	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries,	whether	directly	or	through	a	controlled	subsidiary	or
	
portfolio	company,	and,	in	each	case,	Affiliates	of	any	such	Person	clearly	identifiable	solely	on	the	basis	of	the	similarity	of	their
	
name;	
provided
	that	“Disqualified	Institutions”	shall	exclude	any	Person	that	the	Borrower	has	designated	as	no	longer	being	a
	
“Disqualified	Institution”	by	written	notice	delivered	to	the	Administrative	Agent	from	time	to	time.
“
Documentation	Agents
”	means,	collectively,	CREDIT	AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,
	
GOLDMAN	SACHS	BANK	USA,	HSBC	BANK	USA,	NATIONAL	ASSOCIATION,	MORGAN	STANLEY	SENIOR	FUNDING,	INC.,
	
SOCIÉTÉ	GÉNÉRALE,	THE	TORONTO-DOMINION	BANK,	NEW	YORK	BRANCH	and	WELLS	FARGO	BANK,	NATIONAL
	
ASSOCIATION,	in	their	capacities	as	documentation	agents.
“
Dollar	Amount
”	means,	at	any	time:
(a)	with	respect	to	any	Loan	denominated	in	Dollars,	the	principal	amount	thereof	then	outstanding;	and
(b)	with	respect	to	any	Loan	denominated	in	Euros	or	Pounds	Sterling,	the	principal	amount	thereof	then
	
outstanding	in	such	currency,	converted	to	Dollars	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.18
.
“
Dollars
”	or	“
USD
”	or	“
$
”	refers	to	lawful	money	of	the	United	States	of	America.
“
Domestic	Subsidiary
”	means	any	Subsidiary	incorporated	or	organized	under	the	laws	of	the	United	States	of
	
America,	any	State	thereof	or	the	District	of	Columbia.
“
DQ	List
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	9.04(e)(iv)
.
“
EEA	Financial	Institution
”	means	(a)	any	credit	institution	or	investment	firm	established	in	any	EEA	Member
	
Country	which	is	subject	to	the	supervision	of	an	EEA	Resolution	Authority,	(b)	any	entity	established	in	an	EEA	Member	Country
	
which	is	a	parent	of	an	institution	described	in	
clause	(a)
	of	this	definition	or	(c)	any	financial	institution	established	in	an	EEA
	
Member	Country	which	is	a	subsidiary	of	an	institution	described	in	
clauses	(a)
	or	
(b)
	of	this	definition	and	is	subject	to
	
consolidated	supervision	with	its	parent.
“
EEA	Member	Country
”	means	any	of	the	member	states	of	the	European	Union	from	time	to	time,	Iceland,
	
Liechtenstein,	and	Norway.
“
EEA	Resolution	Authority
”	means	any	public	administrative	authority	or	any	Person	entrusted	with	public
	
administrative	authority	of	any	EEA	Member	Country	(including	any	delegee)	having	responsibility	for	the	resolution	of	any	EEA
	
Financial	Institution.
“
Effective	Date
”	means	the	date	on	which	the	conditions	specified	in	
Section	4.01
	are	satisfied	(or	waived	in
	
accordance	with	
Section	9.02
).
11
	“
Effective	Date	TEO	Subsidiary
”	means	any	direct	or	indirect	subsidiary	of	TEO	as	of	the	Effective	Date.
“
Electronic	Signature
”	means	an	electronic	sound,	symbol,	or	process	attached	to,	or	associated	with,	a	contract
	
or	other	record	and	adopted	by	a	Person	with	the	intent	to	sign,	authenticate	or	accept	such	contract	or	record.
“
EMU
”	means	Economic	and	Monetary	Union	as	contemplated	in	the	Treaty.
“
Energy	Environmental	Attribute
”	means	any	credit,	benefit,	reduction,	offset	or	allowance	(such	as	so-called
	
renewable	energy	certificates,	green	tags,	green	certificates,	and	renewable	energy	credits),	howsoever	entitled	or	named,
	
resulting	from,	attributable	to	or	associated	with	the	storage	or	generation	of	energy,	other	than	the	actual	electric	energy
	
produced,	and	that	is	capable	of	being	measured,	verified	or	calculated	and	in	any	case	may	be	lawfully	marketed	to	third	parties.
	
By	way	of	illustration,	Energy	Environmental	Attributes	may	result	from:	the	generation	system’s	use	of	a	particular	renewable
	
energy	source;	avoided	NOx,	SOx,	CO2	or	greenhouse	gas	emissions	and	other	carbon	credits	and	offsets;	avoided	water	use	or	as
	
otherwise	specified	under	any	applicable	energy-related	private	or	governmental	program.	Notwithstanding	any	of	the	foregoing	in
	
this	definition	or	any	other	provision	of	this	Agreement,	Energy	Environmental	Attributes	shall	not	in	any	case	include:	(i)	any	of	the
	
foregoing	obtained	by,	provided	to,	used	by	or	necessary	for	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	to	conduct	any	of	its
	
operations	at	any	location	(and	shall	not	include	any	water	rights	or	other	rights	or	credits	obtained	pursuant	to	requirements	of
	
applicable	law	in	order	to	site	and	develop	any	facility);	or	(ii)	any	production	tax	credits.
“
Energy	Storage	Agreement
”	means	a	battery	services	contract,	a	battery	sale	contract,	a	battery	installation
	
contract,	a	battery	dispatch	contract,	a	market	participation	contract	involving	batteries,	a	shared	revenue	and	cost	avoidance
	
contract,	a	capacity	contract,	a	tolling	contract,	demand	response	contract,	a	software	contract	pertaining	to	the	dispatch	or	other
	
management	of	batteries,	or	any	agreement	similar	to	the	foregoing.
“
Energy	Storage	Assets
”	means	Energy	Storage	Systems,	Host	Customer	Agreements	and	Projects	and	Equity
	
Interests	in	Excluded	Energy	Storage	Subsidiaries.
“
Energy	Storage	Systems
”	means	all	parts	of	an	energy	storage	system,	including	batteries,	solar	panels,
	
inverters,	wiring	and	other	electrical	devices,	conduit,	housings,	hardware,	remote	monitoring	equipment,	connectors,	meters,
	
disconnects	and	other	related	devices,	including	associated	balance	of	plant.
“
Environmental	Attribute
”	means	an	Energy	Environmental	Attribute	or	a	Vehicle	Environmental	Attribute.
“
Environmental	Laws
”	means	all	laws,	rules,	regulations,	codes,	ordinances,	orders,	decrees,	judgments	or
	
injunctions	issued,	promulgated	or	entered	into	by	any	Governmental	Authority,	relating	in	any	way	to	the	environment	or	the
	
management,	release	or	threatened	release	of	any	Hazardous	Material	or,	to	the	extent	relating	to	exposure	to	Hazardous
	
Materials,	human	health	matters.
“
Environmental	Liability
”	means	any	liability,	contingent	or	otherwise	(including	any	liability	for	damages,	costs	of
	
environmental	remediation,	fines,	penalties	or	indemnities),	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	directly	or	indirectly
	
resulting	from	or	based	upon	(a)	violation	of	any	Environmental	Law,	(b)	the	generation,	use,	handling,	transportation,	storage,
	
treatment	or	disposal	of	any	Hazardous	Materials,	(c)	exposure	to	any	Hazardous	Materials,	(d)	the	release	or	threatened	release	of
	
12
	any	Hazardous	Materials	into	the	environment	or	(e)	any	contract,	agreement	or	other	consensual	arrangement	pursuant	to	which
	
liability	is	assumed	or	imposed	with	respect	to	any	of	the	foregoing.
“
Equity	Interests
”	means	shares	of	capital	stock,	partnership	interests,	membership	interests	in	a	limited	liability
	
company,	beneficial	interests	in	a	trust	or	other	equity	ownership	interests	in	a	Person,	and	any	warrants,	options	or	other	rights
	
entitling	the	holder	thereof	to	purchase	or	acquire	any	such	equity	interest.
“
ERISA
”	means	the	Employee	Retirement	Income	Security	Act	of	1974,	as	amended	from	time	to	time,	any
	
successor	statute	thereto,	and	the	rules	and	regulations	promulgated	thereunder.
“
ERISA	Affiliate
”	means	any	trade	or	business	(whether	or	not	incorporated)	that,	together	with	any	Loan	Party,	is
	
treated	as	a	single	employer	under	Section	414(b)	or	(c)	of	the	Code	or,	solely	for	purposes	of	Section	302	of	ERISA	and	Section
	
412	of	the	Code,	is	treated	as	a	single	employer	under	Section	414(m)	or	(o)	of	the	Code.
“
ERISA	Event
”	means	(a)	the	occurrence	of	any	“reportable	event,”	as	defined	in	Section	4043	of	ERISA	with
	
respect	to	any	Plan	(other	than	an	event	for	which	the	30-day	notice	period	is	waived),	(b)	any	failure	by	any	Plan	to	satisfy	the
	
minimum	funding	standards	(within	the	meaning	of	Section	412	of	the	Code	or	Section	302	of	ERISA)	applicable	to	such	Plan,
	
whether	or	not	waived,	(c)	the	filing	pursuant	to	Section	412(c)	of	the	Code	or	Section	302(c)	of	ERISA	of	an	application	for	a
	
waiver	of	the	minimum	funding	standard	with	respect	to	any	Plan,	(d)	a	determination	that	any	Plan	is,	or	is	expected	to	be,	in	“at
	
risk”	status	(within	the	meaning	of	Section	430	of	the	Code	or	Section	303	of	ERISA),	(e)	the	incurrence	by	any	Loan	Party	or	any
	
ERISA	Affiliate	of	any	liability	under	Title	IV	of	ERISA	with	respect	to	the	termination	of	any	Plan,	(f)	the	incurrence	by	any	Loan
	
Party	of	any	liability	under	Section	4975	of	the	Code	with	respect	to	the	occurrence	of	a	non-exempt	prohibited	transaction	under
	
Section	4975(c)	of	the	Code	or	Section	406	of	ERISA,	(g)	the	receipt	by	any	Loan	Party	or	any	ERISA	Affiliate	from	the	PBGC	or	a
	
plan	administrator	of	any	notice	relating	to	an	intention	to	terminate	any	Plan	or	Plans	or	to	appoint	a	trustee	to	administer	any
	
Plan,	(h)	the	incurrence	by	any	Loan	Party	or	any	ERISA	Affiliate	of	any	liability	with	respect	to	the	withdrawal	or	partial
	
withdrawal	from	any	Plan	or	Multiemployer	Plan	or	(i)	the	receipt	by	any	Loan	Party	or	any	ERISA	Affiliate	of	any	notice,	or	the
	
receipt	by	any	Multiemployer	Plan	from	any	Loan	Party	or	any	ERISA	Affiliate	of	any	notice,	concerning	the	imposition	of
	
Withdrawal	Liability	or	a	determination	that	a	Multiemployer	Plan	is,	or	is	expected	to	be,	terminated	(within	the	meaning	of
	
Section	4041A	or	4042	of	ERISA),	insolvent,	or	in	“endangered”	or	“critical”	status	(within	the	meaning	of	Sections	431	or	432	of
	
the	Code	or	Sections	304	or	305	of	ERISA).
“
Erroneous	Payment
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	8.07(a)
.
“
Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	8.07(d)
.
“
Erroneous	Payment	Impacted	Class
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	8.07(d)
.
“
Erroneous	Payment	Return	Deficiency
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	8.07(d)
.
“
Erroneous	Payment	Subrogation	Rights
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	8.07(f)
.
13
	“
EU	Bail-In	Legislation	Schedule
”	means	the	EU	Bail-In	Legislation	Schedule	published	by	the	Loan	Market
	
Association	(or	any	successor	Person),	as	in	effect	from	time	to	time.
“
EURIBOR
”	means	the	rate	per	annum	equal	to	the	Euro	Interbank	Offered	Rate	as	administered	by	the	European
	
Money	Markets	Institute	(or	any	other	Person	that	takes	over	the	administration	of	such	rate)	for	a	period	comparable	in	length	to
	
such	Interest	Period	(the	“
EURIBOR	Rate
”),	at	approximately	11:00	a.m.	(Brussels	time)	two	TARGET	Days	prior	to	the
	
commencement	of	such	Interest	Period;	
provided
	that,	if	such	rate	is	not	available	at	such	time	for	any	reason,	then	the	“EURIBOR
	
Rate”	with	respect	to	such	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	for	such	Interest	Period	shall	be	the	Interpolated	Rate;	
provided
,	
further
,
	
that	if	EURIBOR	Rate	as	so	determined	shall	ever	be	less	than	the	Floor,	then	EURIBOR	Rate	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	Floor.
“
EURIBOR	Rate
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	the	definition	of	“EURIBOR.”
“
Euro
”	or	“
€
”	means	the	single	currency	of	Participating	Member	States	introduced	in	accordance	with	the
	
provisions	of	Article	109(1)4	of	the	Treaty	and,	in	respect	of	all	payments	to	be	made	under	this	Agreement	in	Euros,	means
	
immediately	available,	freely	transferable	funds.
“
Events	of	Default
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Article	VII
.
“
Exchange	Rate
”	means	on	any	day,	with	respect	to	any	Foreign	Currency,	the	rate	at	which	such	Foreign
	
Currency	may	be	exchanged	into	Dollars,	as	set	forth	at	approximately	11:00	a.m.,	London	time,	on	such	date	on	the	Reuters	World
	
Currency	Page	for	such	Foreign	Currency.		In	the	event	that	such	rate	does	not	appear	on	any	Reuters	World	Currency	Page,	the
	
Exchange	Rate	with	respect	to	such	Foreign	Currency	shall	be	determined	by	reference	to	such	other	publicly	available	service	for
	
displaying	exchange	rates	as	may	be	selected	by	the	Administrative	Agent	(with	respect	to	which	the	Administrative	Agent	shall
	
promptly	notify	the	Borrower),	or,	in	the	event	no	such	service	is	selected,	such	Exchange	Rate	shall	instead	be	the	arithmetic
	
average	of	the	spot	rates	of	exchange	of	the	Administrative	Agent	in	the	market	where	its	foreign	currency	exchange	operations	in
	
respect	of	such	Foreign	Currency	are	then	being	conducted,	at	or	about	10:00	a.m.,	London	time,	on	such	date	for	the	purchase	of
	
the	relevant	currency	for	delivery	two	(2)	Business	Days	later;	
provided
	that,	if	at	the	time	of	any	such	determination,	for	any
	
reason,	no	such	spot	rate	is	being	quoted,	the	Administrative	Agent,	after	consultation	with	the	Borrower,	may	use	any	reasonable
	
method	it	deems	appropriate	to	determine	such	rate,	and	such	determination	shall	be	presumed	correct	absent	manifest	error.
“
Excluded	Charging	Subsidiary
”	means	those	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiaries	of	the	Borrower	(a)	in	which	the
	
Borrower	owns,	directly	or	indirectly,	Equity	Interests	of	less	than	fifty-one	percent	(51%),	(b)	that	own,	lease	or	finance	(or	own
	
any	Subsidiary	that	is	formed	for	such	purpose)	no	assets	other	than	Charging	Assets,	(c)	whose	sole	assets	consist	of	Equity
	
Interests	in	Excluded	Charging	Subsidiaries	of	the	type	described	in	the	foregoing	
clause	(b)
	or	(d)	created	for	or	encumbered	by
	
transactions	involving	monetization	of	Vehicle	Environmental	Attributes.
“
Excluded	Domestic	Subsidiary
”	means	any	Domestic	Subsidiary	that	is	(i)	a	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiary	of	a
	
Subsidiary	of	Borrower	that	is	a	Foreign	Subsidiary	or	(ii)	a	CFC	Holdco.
“
Excluded	Energy	Storage	Subsidiaries
”	means	those	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiaries	of	the	Borrower	(a)	in	which
	
the	Borrower	owns,	directly	or	indirectly,	Equity	Interests	of	less	than	fifty-one	percent	(51%),	(b)	that	own,	lease	or	finance	(or
	
own	any	Subsidiary	that	is	formed	for	such	purpose)	no	assets	other	than	Energy	Storage	Assets,	(c)	whose	sole	assets	consist	of
	
Equity	Interests	in	Excluded	Energy	Storage	Subsidiaries	of	the	type	described	in	the	foregoing	
clause	(b)
	or	(d)	created	for	or
	
encumbered	by	transactions	involving	monetization	of	credits,	certificates	or	incentives.
14
	“
Excluded	Subsidiary
”	means	(i)	any	Subsidiary	to	the	extent	(and	for	so	long	as)	a	Guarantee	by	such	Subsidiary
	
would	be	prohibited	or	restricted	by	applicable	law,	rule	or	regulation	or	by	any	restriction	in	any	contract	existing	on	the	Effective
	
Date	or,	so	long	as	any	such	restriction	in	any	contract	is	not	entered	into	in	contemplation	of	such	Subsidiary	becoming	a
	
Restricted	Subsidiary,	at	the	time	such	Subsidiary	becomes	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	(including	any	requirement	to	obtain	the
	
consent,	approval,	license	or	authorization	of	any	Governmental	Authority	(including	any	regulatory	authority)	or	third	party),	(ii)
	
Excluded	Domestic	Subsidiaries	(and	any	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiary	thereof),	(iii)	any	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Foreign	Subsidiary	or	a
	
CFC	Holdco	(and	any	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiary	thereof),	(iv)	Unrestricted	Subsidiaries	(and	any	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiary
	
thereof),	(v)	Captive	Insurance	Subsidiaries,	(vi)	not-for-profit	Subsidiaries,	(vii)	special	purpose	entities	(including	finance	entities),
	
(viii)	any	Immaterial	Subsidiary,	(ix)	any	subsidiary	to	the	extent	that	the	burden	or	cost	of	obtaining	a	guaranty	outweighs	the
	
benefit	afforded	thereby	as	determined	by	Borrower	in	consultation	with	the	Administrative	Agent,	(x)	any	Subsidiary	to	the	extent
	
a	Guarantee	by	such	Subsidiary	would	result	in	material	adverse	tax	consequences	as	reasonably	determined	by	the	Borrower	in
	
consultation	with	the	Administrative	Agent,	(xi)	any	Subsidiary	formed	to	satisfy	state	dealer	requirements,	(xii)	any	Specified	Tesla
	
Subsidiary,	(xiii)	for	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	any	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiary	of	an	Excluded	Subsidiary	(other	than,	in	each	case,
	
any	such	direct	or	indirect	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Discretionary	Guarantor)	and	(xiv)	any	Subsidiary	that	is	not	a	wholly-owned
	
Subsidiary.
“
Excluded	Taxes
”	means	any	of	the	following	Taxes	imposed	on,	with	respect	to	or	required	to	be	withheld	or
	
deducted	from	a	payment	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Lender	or	any	other	recipient:	(a)	Taxes	imposed	on	(or	measured	by)
	
net	income	(however	denominated),	franchise	Taxes,	and	branch	profits	Taxes,	in	each	case,	(i)	imposed	as	a	result	of	such	Person
	
being	organized	under	the	laws	of,	or	having	its	principal	office	or,	in	the	case	of	any	Lender,	its	applicable	lending	office	located
	
in,	the	jurisdiction	imposes	such	Tax	(or	any	political	subdivision	thereof)	or	(ii)	that	are	Other	Connection	Taxes,	(b)	in	the	case	of
	
a	Lender,	U.S.	federal	withholding	Taxes	imposed	on	amounts	payable	to	or	for	the	account	of	such	Lender	with	respect	to	an
	
applicable	interest	in	a	Loan	or	Commitment	pursuant	to	a	law	in	effect	on	the	date	on	which	(i)	such	Lender	acquires	such	interest
	
in	the	Loan	or	Commitment	(other	than	pursuant	to	an	assignment	requested	by	the	Borrower	under	
Section	2.19(b)
)	or	(ii)	such
	
Lender	changes	its	lending	office,	except	in	each	case	to	the	extent	that,	pursuant	to	Section	2.16,	amounts	with	respect	to	such
	
Taxes	were	payable	either	to	the	Lender’s	assignor	immediately	before	such	Lender	became	a	party	hereto	or	to	such	Lender
	
immediately	before	it	changed	its	lending	office,	(c)	Taxes	attributable	to	such	Person’s	failure	to	comply	with	
Section	2.16(f)
	and
	
(d)	any	withholding	Taxes	imposed	under	FATCA.
“
Existing	Credit	Agreement
”	means	that	certain	Amended	and	Restated	ABL	Credit	Agreement,	dated	as	of	March
	
6,	2019	(as	amended	by	that	certain	First	Amendment	to	Amendment	and	Restated	ABL	Credit	Agreement,	dated	as	of	December
	
23,	2020),	among	the	Borrower,	Tesla	Motors	Netherlands	B.V.,	the	lenders	party	from	time	to	time	thereto	and	Deutsche	Bank	AG
	
New	York	Branch,	as	administrative	agent.
“
Existing	Maturity	Date
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.05(a)
.
“
Extending	Lender
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.05(b)
.
“
Extension	Request
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.05(a)
.
“
Facility
”	means	the	Commitments	and	the	Loans	made	thereunder.
“
FATCA
”	means	Sections	1471	through	1474	of	the	Code,	as	of	the	date	of	this	Agreement	or	any	amended	or
	
successor	version	that	is	substantively	comparable	and	not	materially	more
	
15
	onerous	to	comply	with,	any	current	or	future	regulations	or	official	interpretations	thereof,	any	agreements	entered	into	pursuant
	
to	Section	1471(b)(1)	of	the	Code
,	and	any	fiscal	or	regulatory	legislation,	rules	or	official	practices	adopted	pursuant	to	any
	
intergovernmental	agreement
	among	Governmental	Authorities	and	implementing	such	Sections	of	the	Code.
“
Federal	Funds	Effective	Rate
”	means,	for	any	day,	the	weighted	average	(rounded	upwards,	if	necessary,	to	the
	
next	1/100	of	1%)	of	the	rates	on	overnight	Federal	funds	transactions	with	members	of	the	Federal	Reserve	System	arranged	by
	
Federal	funds	brokers,	as	published	on	the	next	succeeding	Business	Day	by	the	Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	New	York,	or,	if	such	rate
	
is	not	so	published	for	any	day	that	is	a	Business	Day,	the	average	(rounded	upwards,	if	necessary,	to	the	next	1/100	of	1%)	of	the
	
quotations	for	such	day	for	such	transactions	received	by	the	Administrative	Agent	from	three	Federal	funds	brokers	of	recognized
	
standing	selected	by	it;	
provided
	that,	if	the	Federal	Funds	Effective	Rate	shall	be	less	than	zero,	such	rate	shall	be	deemed	to	be
	
zero	for	purposes	of	this	Agreement.
		
“
Floor
”	means	0.0%.
“
Foreign	Currency
”	means	(i)	Euros	and	(ii)	Pounds	Sterling.
“
Foreign	Pension	Plan
”	means	any	plan,	fund	(including	any	superannuation	fund)	or	other	similar	program
	
established	or	maintained	outside	the	United	States	by	the	Borrower	or	any	one	or	more	of	its	Subsidiaries	primarily	for	the	benefit
	
of	employees	of	the	Borrower	or	such	Subsidiaries	residing	outside	the	United	States,	which	plan,	fund	or	other	similar	program
	
provides,	or	results	in,	retirement	income,	a	deferral	of	income	in	contemplation	of	retirement	or	payments	to	be	made	upon
	
termination	of	employment,	and	which	plan	is	not	subject	to	ERISA	or	the	Code.
“
Foreign	Subsidiary
”	means	any	Subsidiary	that	is	not	a	Domestic	Subsidiary.
“
Funding	Office
”	means	the	Administrative	Agent’s	office	located	at	One	Penn’s	Way,	OPS	II,	New	Castle,	DE
	
19720,	Attn:	Agency	Operations,	or	such	other	office	as	may	be	designated	by	the	Administrative	Agent	by	written	notice	to	the
	
Borrower	and	the	relevant	Lenders.
“
GAAP
”	means	(a)	with	respect	to	the	Borrower	and	any	other	Person	organized	under	the	laws	of	any	state	in	the
	
United	States	of	America,	generally	accepted	accounting	principles	in	the	United	States	as	in	effect	from	time	to	time	and	(b)	with
	
respect	to	any	other	Person	organized	under	the	laws	of	any	Governmental	Authority	outside	of	the	United	States,	generally
	
accepted	accounting	principles	in	the	country	of	such	Person’s	organization	or	generally	accepted	accounting	principles	of	the
	
International	Accounting	Standards	Board,	or	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	as	designated	by	the	Borrower,	in	each
	
case	as	the	same	are	applicable	to	the	circumstances	as	of	the	date	of	determination.
“
Governmental	Authority
”	means	the	government	of	the	United	States	of	America,	any	other	nation	or	any
	
political	subdivision	thereof,	whether	state	or	local,	and	any	agency,	authority,	instrumentality,	regulatory	body,	court,	central	bank
	
or	other	entity	exercising	executive,	legislative,	judicial,	taxing,	regulatory	or	administrative	powers	or	functions	of	or	pertaining	to
	
government	(including	any	supra-national	bodies	such	as	the	European	Union	or	the	European	Central	Bank).
“
Guarantee
”	of	or	by	any	Person	(the	“
guarantor
”)	means	any	obligation,	contingent	or	otherwise,	of	the
	
guarantor	guaranteeing	or	having	the	economic	effect	of	guaranteeing	any	Indebtedness	of	any	other	Person	(the	“
primary
	
obligor
”)	in	any	manner,	whether	directly	or	indirectly,	and	including	any	obligation	of	the	guarantor,	direct	or	indirect,	(a)	to
	
purchase	or	pay	(or	advance	or	supply	funds	for	the	purchase	or	payment	of)	such	Indebtedness	or	to	purchase	(or	to	advance	or
	
supply	funds	for	the
	
16
	purchase	of)	any	security	for	the	payment	thereof,	(b)	to	purchase	or	lease	property,	securities	or	services	for	the	purpose	of
	
assuring	the	owner	of	such	Indebtedness	of	the	payment	thereof,	(c)	to	maintain	working	capital,	equity	capital	or	any	other
	
financial	statement	condition	or	liquidity	of	the	primary	obligor	so	as	to	enable	the	primary	obligor	to	pay	such	Indebtedness	or	(d)
	
as	an	account	party	in	respect	of	any	letter	of	credit	or	letter	of	guaranty	issued	to	support	such	Indebtedness	or	obligation;
	
provided
	that	the	term	Guarantee	shall	not	include	endorsements	for	collection	or	deposit	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business.	The
	
amount	of	any	Guarantee	shall	be	deemed	to	be	an	amount	equal	to	the	stated	or	determinable	amount	of	the	related	primary
	
obligation,	or	portion	thereof,	in	respect	of	which	such	Guarantee	is	made	or,	if	not	stated	or	determinable,	the	maximum
	
reasonably	anticipated	liability	in	respect	thereof	as	determined	by	the	guaranteeing	Person	in	good	faith.
“
Guarantee	Agreement
”	means	the	Guarantee	Agreement	to	be	executed	and	delivered	by	each	Guarantor,
	
substantially	in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	J
	hereto.
“
Guarantors
”	means	each	Discretionary	Guarantor	which	becomes	a	Guarantor	and	each	Domestic	Subsidiary	of
	
the	Borrower	which	becomes	a	Guarantor	pursuant	to	
Section	5.09
	(in	each	case	other	than	any	such	Domestic	Subsidiary	that	has
	
been	released	from	its	guarantee	under	the	Guarantee	Agreement	in	compliance	with	the	terms	of	the	Loan	Documents).
“
Hazardous	Materials
”	means	all	explosive	or	radioactive	substances	or	wastes	and	all	hazardous	or	toxic
	
substances,	wastes	or	other	pollutants,	including	petroleum	or	petroleum	distillates,	asbestos	or	asbestos	containing	materials,
	
polychlorinated	biphenyls,	per-	and	polyfluoroalkyl	substances,	1,4-dioxane,	radon	gas,	infectious	or	medical	wastes,	and	all	other
	
substances	or	wastes	of	any	nature	regulated	pursuant	to	or	that	could	give	rise	to	liability	under,	any	Environmental	Law	due	to
	
their	dangerous	or	deleterious	properties	or	effects.
“
Host	Customer	Agreements
”	means	the	Energy	Storage	Agreements	and	Customer	Lease	Agreements.
“
Illegality	Notice
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.22
.
	
“
Immaterial	Subsidiary
”	means,	as	of	the	most	recently	ended	fiscal	quarter	of	the	Borrower,	any	wholly-owned
	
Domestic	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower,	taken	together	with	its	consolidated	subsidiaries	(x)	whose	consolidated	total	assets	(as	set
	
forth	in	the	most	recent	consolidated	balance	sheet	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	delivered	to	the	Lenders
	
pursuant	to	this	Agreement	and	computed	in	accordance	with	GAAP,	but	excluding	intercompany	assets),	do	not	constitute	more
	
than	5.0%	of	the	Consolidated	Total	Assets	and	(y)	whose	consolidated	total	revenues	(as	set	forth	in	the	most	recent	income
	
statement	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	delivered	to	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	and	computed	in
	
accordance	with	GAAP,	but	excluding	intercompany	revenues)	do	not	constitute	more	than	5.0%	of	the	consolidated	total	revenues
	
of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	(as	set	forth	in	the	most	recent	income	statement	of	the	Borrower	and	its
	
Consolidated	Subsidiaries	delivered	to	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	and	computed	in	accordance	with	GAAP).
“
Increasing	Lender
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.02(e)
.
	
“
Indebtedness
”	of	any	Person	means,	without	duplication,	(a)	all	obligations	of	such	Person	for	borrowed	money
	
or	with	respect	to	deposits,	(b)	all	obligations	of	such	Person	evidenced	by	bonds,	debentures,	notes	or	similar	instruments,	(c)	all
	
obligations	of	such	Person	under	conditional	sale	or	other	title	retention	agreements	relating	to	property	acquired	by	such	Person,
	
(d)	all	obligations	of	such	Person	in	respect	of	the	deferred	purchase	price	of	property	or	services	(excluding	trade	accounts
	
payable
	
17
	incurred	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	and	obligations	in	respect	of	the	funding	of	Plans	under	ERISA	or	the	Code),	(e)	all
	
Indebtedness	of	others	secured	by	(or	for	which	the	holder	of	such	Indebtedness	has	an	existing	right,	contingent	or	otherwise,	to
	
be	secured	by)	any	Lien	on	property	owned	or	acquired	by	such	Person,	whether	or	not	the	Indebtedness	secured	thereby	has	been
	
assumed	(
provided
	that	the	amount	of	any	such	Indebtedness	that	has	not	been	assumed	shall	be	equal	to	the	lesser	of	the	face
	
amount	of	such	Indebtedness	and	the	fair	market	value	of	the	property	subject	to	such	Lien),	(f)	all	Guarantees	by	such	Person	of
	
Indebtedness	of	others,	(g)	all	Capital	Lease	Obligations	of	such	Person,	(h)	all	obligations,	contingent	or	otherwise,	of	such	Person
	
as	an	account	party	in	respect	of	letters	of	credit	and	letters	of	guaranty,	(i)	all	obligations	in	respect	of	the	principal	of	any
	
Indebtedness	incurred	in	connection	with	any	Securitization	Transaction	in	which	such	Person	participates	and	(j)	all	obligations,
	
contingent	or	otherwise,	of	such	Person	in	respect	of	bankers’	acceptances.		The	Indebtedness	of	any	Person	shall	include	the
	
Indebtedness	of	any	other	entity	(including	any	partnership	in	which	such	Person	is	a	general	partner)	to	the	extent	such	Person	is
	
liable	therefor	as	a	result	of	such	Person’s	ownership	interest	in	or	other	relationship	with	such	entity,	except	to	the	extent	the
	
terms	of	such	Indebtedness	provide	that	such	Person	is	not	liable	therefor.	Notwithstanding	the	foregoing,	Indebtedness	shall	not
	
include	(i)	accrued	expenses	and	deferred	tax	and	other	credits	incurred	by	any	Person	in	accordance	with	customary	practices	and
	
in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	of	such	Person,	(ii)	any	earn-out	obligations	to	the	extent	such	obligation	is	due	and	payable,	(iii)
	
obligations	incurred	among	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	for	the	purchase	of
	
goods	and	services,	(iv)	third	party	obligations	included	in	the	Borrower’s	financial	statements	as	a	result	of	variable	interest	entity
	
accounting	and	(v)	payments	for	property	or	services	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	that	are	payable	over	a	period	not	to	exceed
	
one	year	and	at	0%	interest.
“
Indemnified	Taxes
”	means	Taxes	other	than	Excluded	Taxes,	imposed	on	or	with	respect	to	any	payment	made	by
	
or	on	account	of	any	obligation	of	the	Borrower	hereunder.
“
Indemnitee
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	9.03(b)
.
“
Index	Debt
”	means	senior,	unsecured,	long-term	indebtedness	for	borrowed	money	of	the	Borrower	that	is	not
	
guaranteed	by	any	other	Person	or	subject	to	any	other	credit	enhancement.
“
Information
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	9.12
.
“
Insurance	Subsidiary
”	means	any	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower	that	is	engaged	in	the	insurance	business.
“
Intellectual	Property
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	3.18
.
“
Interest	Election	Request
”	means	a	request	by	the	Borrower	to	convert	or	continue	a	Borrowing	in	accordance
	
with	
Section	2.07
,	which	shall	be	substantially	in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	F
	hereto	or	any	other	form	approved	by	the	Administrative
	
Agent.
“
Interest	Payment	Date
”	means	(a)	with	respect	to	any	ABR	Loan,	each	Quarterly	Payment	Date,	(b)	with	respect
	
to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	as	applicable,	the	last	day	of	each	Interest	Period	applicable	to	the	Borrowing	of	which	such	Loan	is
	
a	part	and,	in	the	case	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	with	an	Interest	Period	of	more	than	three	months’	duration,	each	day	prior
	
to	the	last	day	of	such	Interest	Period	that	occurs	at	intervals	of	three	months’	duration	after	the	first	day	of	such	Interest	Period
	
and	(c)	with	respect	to	any	SONIA	Loan,	each	date	that	is	on	the	numerically	corresponding	day	in	each	calendar	month	that	is	one
	
month	after	the	borrowing	of	such	advance	(or,	if	there	is	no	such	corresponding	day	in	such	month,	then	the	last	day	of	such
	
month).
18
	“
Interest	Period
”	means	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	the	period	commencing	on	the	date	of
	
such	Borrowing	and	ending	on	the	numerically	corresponding	day	in	the	calendar	month	that	is	one,	three	or	six	months	thereafter,
	
as	the	Borrower	may	elect;	
provided
	that	(i)	if	any	Interest	Period	would	end	on	a	day	other	than	a	Business	Day,	such	Interest
	
Period	shall	be	extended	to	the	next	succeeding	Business	Day	unless,	in	the	case	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	as	applicable,
	
such	next	succeeding	Business	Day	would	fall	in	the	next	calendar	month,	in	which	case	such	Interest	Period	shall	end	on	the	next
	
preceding	Business	Day	and	(ii)	any	Interest	Period	pertaining	to	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	as	applicable,	that	commences	on
	
the	last	Business	Day	of	a	calendar	month	(or	on	a	day	for	which	there	is	no	numerically	corresponding	day	in	the	last	calendar
	
month	of	such	Interest	Period)	shall	end	on	the	last	Business	Day	of	the	last	calendar	month	of	such	Interest	Period.
“
IRS
”	means	the	U.S.	Internal	Revenue	Service.
“
Interpolated	Rate
”	means,	at	any	time,	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Borrowings	denominated	in	Euros
	
and	for	any	Interest	Period,	the	rate	per	annum	determined	by	the	Administrative	Agent	(which	determination	shall	be	conclusive
	
and	binding	absent	manifest	error)	to	be	equal	to	the	rate	that	results	from	interpolating	on	a	linear	basis	between:	(a)	the
	
EURIBOR	Rate	for	the	longest	period	(for	which	the	EURIBOR	Rate	is	available)	that	is	shorter	than	the	Interest	Period	and	(b)	the
	
EURIBOR	Rate	for	the	shortest	period	(for	which	that	EURIBOR	Rate	is	available)	that	exceeds	the	Interest	Period,	in	each	case,	at
	
approximately	11:00	a.m.	(Brussels	time)	two	TARGET	Days	prior	to	the	commencement	of	such	Interest	Period.
“
Issuing	Bank
”	means	CITIBANK,	N.A.,	DEUTSCHE	BANK	AG	NEW	YORK	BRANCH,	CREDIT	AGRICOLE
	
CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,	GOLDMAN	SACHS	LENDING	PARTNERS	LLC,	HSBC	BANK	USA,	NATIONAL
	
ASSOCIATION,	MORGAN	STANLEY	BANK,	N.A.,	SOCIÉTÉ	GÉNÉRALE,	THE	TORONTO-DOMINION	BANK,	NEW	YORK	BRANCH,
	
WELLS	FARGO	BANK,	NATIONAL	ASSOCIATION,	and	any	other	Lender	that	agrees	to	act	as	an	Issuing	Bank,	each	in	its	capacity
	
as	the	issuer	of	Letters	of	Credit	hereunder,	and	its	successors	in	such	capacity	as	provided	in	
Section	2.04(i)
.		Any	Issuing	Bank
	
may,	in	its	discretion,	arrange	for	one	or	more	Letters	of	Credit	to	be	issued	by	Affiliates	of	such	Issuing	Bank,	in	which	case	the
	
term	“Issuing	Bank”	shall	include	any	such	Affiliate	with	respect	to	Letters	of	Credit	issued	by	such	Affiliate.		Each	reference	herein
	
to	the	“Issuing	Bank”	in	connection	with	a	Letter	of	Credit	or	other	matter	shall	be	deemed	to	be	a	reference	to	the	relevant	Issuing
	
Bank	with	respect	thereto.
“
Joint
	
Bookrunners
”	means,	collectively,	CITIBANK,	N.A.,	DEUTSCHE	BANK	SECURITIES	INC.,	CREDIT
	
AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,	GOLDMAN	SACHS	LENDING	PARTNERS	LLC,	HSBC	SECURITIES	(USA)
	
INC.,	MORGAN	STANLEY	SENIOR	FUNDING,	INC.,	SOCIÉTÉ	GÉNÉRALE,	TD	SECURITIES	(USA)	LLC	and	WELLS	FARGO
	
SECURITIES,	LLC,	in	their	capacities	as	joint	bookrunners.
“
Joint
	
Lead	Arrangers
”	means,	collectively,	CITIBANK,	N.A.,	DEUTSCHE	BANK	SECURITIES	INC.,	CREDIT
	
AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,	GOLDMAN	SACHS	LENDING	PARTNERS	LLC,	HSBC	SECURITIES	(USA)
	
INC.,	MORGAN	STANLEY	SENIOR	FUNDING,	INC.,	SOCIÉTÉ	GÉNÉRALE,	TD	SECURITIES	(USA)	LLC	and	WELLS	FARGO
	
SECURITIES,	LLC,	in	their	capacities	as	joint	lead	arrangers.
“
Judgment	Currency
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	9.16(b)
.
“
LC	Disbursement
”	means	a	payment	made	by	an	Issuing	Bank	pursuant	to	a	Letter	of	Credit.
19
		“
LC	Exposure
”	means,	at	any	time,	the	sum	of	(a)	the	aggregate	undrawn	amount	of	all	outstanding	Letters	of	Credit
	
at	such	time,	
plus
	(b)	the	aggregate	amount	of	all	LC	Disbursements	that	have	not	yet	been	reimbursed	by	or	on	behalf	of	the
	
Borrower	at	such	time.		The	LC	Exposure	of	any	Lender	at	any	time	shall	be	its	Applicable	Percentage	of	the	LC	Exposure	at	such
	
time.
	
“
Lead	Arrangers
”	means,	collectively,	the	Joint	Lead	Arrangers	and	the	Joint	Bookrunners.
“
Lenders
”	means	the	Persons	listed	on	
Schedule	1.01
	and	any	other	Person	that	shall	have	become	a	party	hereto
	
pursuant	to	an	Assignment	and	Assumption	or	pursuant	to	
Section	2.02(e)
,	other	than	any	such	Person	that	ceases	to	be	a	party
	
hereto	pursuant	to	an	Assignment	and	Assumption.	Unless	the	context	otherwise	requires,	the	term	“Lenders”	includes	the	Issuing
	
Banks.
“
Letter	of	Credit
”	means	any	letter	of	credit	issued	pursuant	to	this	Agreement.
“
Letter	of	Credit	Agreement
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	2.04(b)
.
“
Letter	of	Credit	Commitment
”	means,	with	respect	to	each	Issuing	Bank,	the	commitment	of	such	Issuing	Bank	to
	
issue	Letters	of	Credit	hereunder.		The	initial	amount	of	each	Issuing	Bank’s	Letter	of	Credit	Commitment	is	set	forth	on	
Schedule
	
1.01
	as	its	“Letter	of	Credit	Commitment”,	or	if	an	Issuing	Bank	has	entered	into	an	Assignment	and	Assumption	or	has	otherwise
	
assumed	a	Letter	of	Credit	Commitment	after	the	Effective	Date,	the	amount	set	forth	for	such	Issuing	Bank	as	its	Letter	of	Credit
	
Commitment	in	the	Register	maintained	by	the	Administrative	Agent.		The	Letter	of	Credit	Commitment	of	an	Issuing	Bank	may	be
	
modified	from	time	to	time	by	agreement	between	such	Issuing	Bank	and	the	Borrower,	and	notified	to	the	Administrative	Agent.
	
The	initial	aggregate	amount	of	the	Issuing	Banks’	Letter	of	Credit	Commitments	as	of	the	Effective	Date	is	USD$500,000,000.
“
Lien
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	asset,	(a)	any	mortgage,	deed	of	trust,	lien,	pledge,	hypothecation,
	
encumbrance,	charge	or	security	interest	in,	on	or	of	such	asset,	(b)	the	interest	of	a	vendor	or	a	lessor	under	any	conditional	sale
	
agreement,	financing	lease	or	title	retention	agreement	(or	any	financing	lease	having	substantially	the	same	economic	effect	as
	
any	of	the	foregoing)	relating	to	such	asset	and	(c)	in	the	case	of	securities,	any	purchase	option,	call	or	similar	right	of	a	third
	
party	with	respect	to	such	securities;	
provided
	that	“Lien”	shall	not	include	any	non-exclusive	licenses	to	Intellectual	Property	in	the
	
ordinary	course	of	business	or	not	interfering	in	any	material	respect	with	the	ordinary	conduct	of	the	business	of	the	Borrower	or
	
any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries.
“
Loan	Documents
”	means	this	Agreement,	including	schedules	and	exhibits	hereto,	each	Letter	of	Credit,	the
	
Guarantee	Agreement	and	any	agreements	entered	into	in	connection	herewith	by	the	Borrower	with	or	in	favor	of	the
	
Administrative	Agent	and/or	the	Lenders,	including	any	Notes,	and,	in	each	case,	any	amendments,	modifications	or	supplements
	
thereto	or	waivers	thereof.
“
Loan	Party
”	means	the	Borrower	and	each	Guarantor.
“
Loans
”	means	the	Loans	made	by	the	Lenders	to	the	Borrower	pursuant	to	
Section	2.03
	of	this	Agreement.
“
Manufacturing	Facility
”	means	any	manufacturing	facilities	or	Gigafactory	facilities	established	by	the	Borrower
	
or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries	from	time	to	time.
20
	“
Marketable	Securities
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Person,	investments	by	such	Person	in	time	deposits	and	fixed
	
income	securities	with	original	maturities	greater	than	three	(3)	months	that	have	a	determinable	fair	value,	are	liquid	and	are
	
readily	convertible	into	cash.	For	avoidance	of	doubt,	(i)	such	investments	are	passive	investments,	purchased	by	such	Person	in	the
	
ordinary	course	of	business	as	part	of	its	liquidity	and/or	cash	management	activities	and	(ii)	for	all	purposes	of	the	Loan
	
Documents,	the	amount	of	Marketable	Securities	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Domestic	Subsidiaries	as	of	the	last	day	of	any	fiscal
	
quarter	or	fiscal	year	of	the	Borrower	is	equal	to	the	amount	reported	on	the	Borrower’s	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	and	Quarterly
	
Report	on	Form	10-Q	consolidated	balance	sheet	for	such	fiscal	quarter	or	fiscal	year,	as	the	case	may	be,	as	the	line	“Short-term
	
marketable	securities”	or	“Investments”,	less	any	adjustment	for	securities	that	do	not	satisfy	the	requirements	of	the	first	sentence
	
of	this	definition.
“
Material	Adverse	Effect
”	means	a	material	adverse	effect	on	(a)	the	business,	operations,	property	or	financial
	
condition	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries,	taken	as	a	whole	or	(b)	legality,	validity	or	enforceability	of	the	Loan
	
Documents.
“
Material	Indebtedness
”	means	Indebtedness	(other	than	the	Loans,	Letters	of	Credit	and	non-recourse
	
Indebtedness),	or	obligations	in	respect	of	Swap	Agreements,	of	any	one	or	more	of	the	Borrower	and	the	Restricted	Subsidiaries
	
that	are	also	Significant	Subsidiaries	in	an	aggregate	principal	amount	exceeding	$350,000,000	(or,	if	denominated	in	another
	
currency,	the	equivalent	thereof	in	Dollars).		For	purposes	of	determining	Material	Indebtedness,	the	“principal	amount”	of	the
	
obligations	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	in	respect	of	any	Swap	Agreement	at	any	time	shall	be	the	maximum
	
aggregate	amount	(giving	effect	to	any	netting	agreements)	that	the	Borrower	or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary	would	be	required	to
	
pay	if	such	Swap	Agreement	were	terminated	at	such	time.
“
Maturity	Date
”	“means	the	later	of	(a)	January	20,	2028	and	(b)	for	any	Lender	agreeing	to	extend	its	Maturity
	
Date	pursuant	to	
Section	2.05
,	such	date	pursuant	to	which	the	Maturity	Date	of	such	Lender	has	been	extended;	
provided
,
	
however
,	if	such	date	is	not	a	Business	Day,	the	Maturity	Date	shall	be	the	next	preceding	Business	Day.
“
Maximum	Rate
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	9.20
.
“
Moody’s
”	means	Moody’s	Investors	Service,	Inc.
“
Multiemployer	Plan
”	means	a	multiemployer	plan	as	defined	in	Section	4001(a)(3)	of	ERISA	that	is	subject	to
	
ERISA,	to	which	any	Loan	Party	or	any	ERISA	Affiliate	makes	or	is	obligated	to	make	contributions,	during	the	preceding	five	plan
	
years	has	made	or	been	obligated	to	make	contributions,	or	has	any	liability.
“
Non-Consenting	Lender
”	means	any	Lender	that	withholds	its	consent	to	any	proposed	amendment,	modification
	
or	waiver	that	cannot	become	effective	without	the	consent	of	such	Lender	under	
Section	9.02
	and	that	has	been	consented	to	by
	
the	Required	Lenders.
21
	“
Non-Extending	Lender
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.05(b)
.
“
Non-Funding	Lender
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.19(c)
.
“
Note
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	such	term	in	
Section	2.09(e)
.
“
NYFRB
”	means	The	Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	New	York.
“
NYFRB	Rate
”	means,	for	any	day,	the	greater	of	(a)	the	Federal	Funds	Effective	Rate	in	effect	on	such	day	and
	
(b)	the	Overnight	Bank	Funding	Rate	in	effect	on	such	day	(or	for	any	day	that	is	not	a	Business	Day,	for	the	immediately	preceding
	
Business	Day);	
provided
	that,	if	none	of	such	rates	are	published	for	any	day	that	is	a	Business	Day,	the	term	“NYFRB	Rate”	means
	
the	rate	for	a	federal	funds	transaction	quoted	at	11:00	a.m.	New	York	City	time	on	such	day	received	by	the	Administrative	Agent
	
from	a	federal	funds	broker	of	recognized	standing	selected	by	it;	
provided
,	
further
,	that	if	any	of	the	aforesaid	rates	shall	be	less
	
than	zero,	such	rate	shall	be	deemed	to	be	zero	for	purposes	of	this	Agreement.
“
Obligations
”	means	all	advances	to,	and	debts,	liabilities	and	obligations	of,	the	Borrower	arising	under	any	Loan
	
Document	or	otherwise	with	respect	to	any	Loan	or	Letter	of	Credit,	whether	direct	or	indirect	(including	those	acquired	by
	
assumption),	absolute	or	contingent,	due	or	to	become	due,	now	existing	or	hereafter	arising	and	including	interest	and	fees	that
	
accrue	after	the	commencement	by	or	against	the	Borrower	or	any	Affiliate	thereof	of	any	proceeding	under	any	debtor	relief	laws
	
naming	such	Person	as	the	debtor	in	such	proceeding,	regardless	of	whether	such	interest	and	fees	are	allowed	or	allowable	claims
	
in	such	proceeding.		Without	limiting	the	foregoing,	the	Obligations	include:	(a)	the	obligation	to	pay	principal,	interest,	Letter	of
	
Credit	commissions,	charges,	expenses,	fees,	indemnities	and	other	amounts	payable	by	the	Borrower	under	any	Loan	Document
	
and	(b)	the	obligation	of	the	Borrower	to	reimburse	any	amount	in	respect	of	any	of	the	foregoing	that	the	Administrative	Agent	or
	
any	Lender,	in	each	case	in	its	sole	discretion,	may	elect	to	pay	or	advance	on	behalf	of	the	Borrower.
“
Other	Connection	Taxes
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Lender,	Taxes	imposed,	as	a	result	of	a	present	or	former
	
connection	between	the	Lender	and	the	jurisdiction	imposing	such	Taxes	(other	than	a	connection	arising	from	such	Lender	having
	
executed,	delivered,	become	a	party	to,	performed	its	obligations	under,	received	payments	under,	engaged	in	any	other
	
transaction	pursuant	to,	or	enforced,	this	Agreement,	or	sold	or	assigned	an	interest	in	any	Loan).
“
Other	Taxes
”	means	any	and	all	present	or	future	stamp,	or	documentary,	Taxes	or	any	other	excise	or	property
	
Taxes,	charges	or	similar	levies	arising	from	any	payment	made	hereunder	or	from	the	execution,	delivery,	or	enforcement	of,	or
	
otherwise	with	respect	to,	this	Agreement,	except	any	such	Taxes	that	are	Other	Connection	Taxes	imposed	with	respect	to	an
	
assignment	(other	than	an	assignment	made	pursuant	to	
Section	2.19
).
“
Overnight	Bank	Funding	Rate
”	means,	for	any	day,	the	rate	comprised	of	both	overnight	federal	funds	and
	
overnight	borrowings	by	U.S.	managed	banking	offices	of	depository	institutions	(as	such	composite	rate	shall	be	determined	by	the
	
NYFRB	as	set	forth	on	its	public	website	from	time	to	time)	and	published	on	the	next	succeeding	Business	Day	by	the	NYFRB	as	an
	
overnight	bank	funding	rate	(from	and	after	such	date	as	the	NYFRB	shall	commence	to	publish	such	composite	rate).
22
	“
Overnight	Rate
”	means	for	any	day,	(a)	with	respect	to	any	amount	denominated	in	Dollars,	the	Federal	Funds
	
Effective	Rate	and	(b)	with	respect	to	any	amount	denominated	in	a	Foreign	Currency,	the	rate	of	interest	per	annum	as	determined
	
by	the	Administrative	Agent	at	which	overnight	deposits	in	the	relevant	Foreign	Currency,	in	an	amount	approximately	equal	to	the
	
amount	with	respect	to	which	such	rate	is	being	determined,	would	be	offered	for	such	day	by	a	branch	or	Affiliate	of	the
	
Administrative	Agent	in	the	applicable	offshore	interbank	market	for	such	Foreign	Currency	to	major	banks	in	such	interbank
	
market.
“
Participant
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	9.04(c)
.
“
Participant	Register
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	9.04(c)
.
“
Participating	Member	State
”	means	each	state	so	described	in	any	EMU	legislation.
“
Payment	Recipient
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	8.07(a)
.
“
Payoff
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	4.01(f)
.
“
PBGC
”	means	the	Pension	Benefit	Guaranty	Corporation	referred	to	and	defined	in	ERISA	and	any	successor
	
entity	performing	similar	functions.
“
Permitted	Encumbrances
”	means:
(a)
Li
ens	imposed	by	law	for	Taxes	that	are	not	yet	due	or	are	being	contested	in	compliance	with	
Section	5.04
;
(b)
carriers’,	warehousemen’s,	mechanics’,	materialmen’s,	repairmen’s	and	other	like	Liens	imposed	by	law,
	
arising	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	and	securing	obligations	that	are	not	overdue	by	more	than	sixty	(60)	days	or	are
	
being	contested	in	compliance	with	
Section	5.04
;
(c)
Liens	made	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	in	compliance	with	workers’	compensation,	unemployment
	
insurance	and	other	social	security	laws	or	regulations;
(d)
Liens	to	secure	the	performance	of	bids,	trade	contracts,	leases,	statutory	obligations,	government
	
contracts,	surety	and	appeal	bonds,	performance	bonds	and	other	obligations	of	a	like	nature,	in	each	case	in	the	ordinary
	
course	of	business;
	
(e)
easements,	zoning	restrictions,	rights-of-way	and	similar	encumbrances	and	other	minor	defects	or
	
irregularities	in	title	on	real	property	imposed	by	law	or	arising	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	that	are	not	substantial
	
in	amount	and	do	not	materially	detract	from	the	value	of	the	affected	property	or	materially	interfere	with	the	ordinary
	
conduct	of	business	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary;
23
	(f)
licenses	(with	respect	to	any	Intellectual	Property	and	other	property),	leases	or	subleases	granted	to	third
	
parties	by	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	or	not	interfering	in	any	material
	
respect	with	the	ordinary	conduct	of	the	business	of	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries;
(g)
any	(i)	interest	or	title	of	a	lessor	or	sublessor	under	any	lease	of	property	to	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its
	
Restricted	Subsidiaries,	(ii)	Lien	or	restriction	that	the	interest	or	title	of	such	lessor	or	sublessor	referred	to	in	the
	
preceding	
clause	(i)
	may	be	subject	to	or	(iii)	subordination	of	the	interest	of	the	lessee	or	sublessee	under	such	lease	to
	
any	Lien	or	restriction	referred	to	in	the	preceding	
clause	(ii)
,	so	long	as	the	holder	of	such	Lien	or	restriction	agrees	to
	
recognize	the	rights	of	such	lessee	or	sublessee	under	such	lease;
(h)
(i)	Liens	incurred	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	in	connection	with	the	purchase	or	shipping	of	goods
	
or	assets	(or	the	related	assets	and	proceeds	thereof),	which	Liens	are	in	favor	of	the	seller,	broker	or	shipper	of	such
	
goods	or	assets	and	only	attach	to	such	goods	or	assets,	(ii)	deposits	as	security	for	contested	taxes	or	contested	import	or
	
customs	duties	and	(iii)	Liens	in	favor	of	customs	and	revenue	authorities	arising	as	a	matter	of	law	to	secure	payment	of
	
customs	duties	in	connection	with	the	importation	of	goods	so	long	as	such	Liens	only	cover	the	related	goods;
(i)
any	zoning	or	similar	law	or	right	reserved	to	or	vested	in	any	governmental	office	or	agency	to	control	or
	
regulate	the	use	of	any	real	property	owned	or	leased	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries;
(j)
any	judgment	Lien	not	constituting	an	Event	of	Default	under	
clause	(k)
	of	
Section	7.01
	hereof;
	
(k)
Liens	granted	by	the	Borrower	or	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	in	connection	with	a	transfer	of	assets	from	by
	
the	Borrower	or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary	to	a	Securitization	Subsidiary	in	connection	with	a	Securitization	Transaction
	
so	long	as	such	Liens	cover	only	the	assets	so	transferred;
	
(l)
reciprocal	easement	or	similar	agreements	entered	into	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	of	the	Borrower
	
and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries;
(m)
customary	rights	of	first	refusal,	voting,	redemption,	transfer	or	other	restrictions	with	respect	to	the
	
Equity	Interests	in	any	joint	venture	entities	or	other	Persons	that	are	not	Subsidiaries;
	
(n)
any	interest	or	title	of	a	licensor	under	any	license	or	sublicense	entered	into	by	the	Borrower	or	any
	
Subsidiary	as	a	licensee	or	sublicensee	(A)	existing	on	the	date	hereof	or	(B)	in	the	ordinary	course	of	its	business;
(o)
Liens	arising	out	of	any	conditional	sale,	title	retention,	consignment	or	other	similar	arrangements	for	the
	
sale	of	goods	entered	into	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	to	the	extent	such
	
Liens	do	not	attach	to	any	assets	other	than	the	goods	subject	to	such	arrangements;
(p)
Liens	in	the	nature	of	the	right	of	setoff	in	favor	of	counterparties	to	contractual	agreements	with	the
	
Borrower	or	any	Subsidiary	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business;
24
	(q)
licensing	and	cross-licensing	arrangements	entered	into	by	the	Borrower	and	its	Subsidiaries	for	purposes
	
of	enforcing,	defending	or	settling	claims	with	respect	to	the	Intellectual	Property	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Subsidiaries	and
	
not	interfering	in	any	material	respect	with	the	ordinary	conduct	of	the	business	of	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries;
(r)
Liens	on	earnest	money	deposits	made	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	in	connection	with	any	agreement
	
in	respect	of	an	anticipated	acquisition	or	other	investment;
(s)
Liens	on	assets	arising	in	connection	with	the	sale	or	transfer	of	such	assets	in	a	transaction	permitted
	
hereunder	and	customary	rights	and	restrictions	contained	in	agreements	relating	to	such	sale	or	transfer	pending	the
	
completion	thereof;	and
(t)
Liens	arising	by	virtue	of	Uniform	Commercial	Code	financing	statement	filings	(or	similar	filings	under
	
applicable	law)	re
garding	operating	leases	entered	into	by	the	Borrower	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business;
provided
	that	the	term	“Permitted	Encumbrances”	shall	not	include	any	Lien	securing	Indebtedness.
“
Permitted	Holder
”	shall	mean	each	of	Elon	Musk	and	his	estate,	spouse,	siblings,	ancestors,	heirs,	and	lineal
	
descendants,	and	any	spouses	of	such	Persons,	the	legal	representatives	of	any	of	the	foregoing,	and	any	bona	fide	trust	of	which
	
one	or	more	the	foregoing	are	the	principal	beneficiaries	or	grantors,	or	any	other	Person	that	is	controlled	by	any	of	the	foregoing.
“
Person
”	means	any	natural	person,	corporation,	limited	liability	company,	trust,	joint	venture,	association,
	
company,	partnership,	Governmental	Authority	or	other	entity.
“
Plan
”	means	any	employee	pension	benefit	plan	(as	defined	in	Section	3(2)	of	ERISA,	other	than	a	Multiemployer
	
Plan)	subject	to	the	provisions	of	Title	IV	of	ERISA	or	Section	412	of	the	Code	or	Section	302	of	ERISA,	and	in	respect	of	which	any
	
Loan	Party	or	any	ERISA	Affiliate	is	(or,	if	such	plan	were	terminated,	would	under	Section	4069	of	ERISA	be	deemed	to	be)	an
	
“employer”	as	defined	in	Section	3(5)	of	ERISA.
“
Plan	Asset	Regulations
”	means	28	CFR	§	2510.3-101,	as	modified	by	Section	3(42)	of	ERISA,	as	amended	from
	
time	to	time.
“
Pounds	Sterling
”	or	“
£
”	means	the	lawful	currency	of	the	United	Kingdom	of	Great	Britain	and	Northern	Ireland.
25
	“
Pricing	Grid
”	means	the	table	set	forth	below:
Level
Rating
Applicable	Rate
Commitment	Fee	Rate
Term	Benchmark
	
Spread/SONIA	Spread
ABR	Spread
I
≥	A	or	A2
77.5	bps
0.0	bps
5.0	bps
II
A-	or	A3
90.0	bps
0.0	bps
7.5	bps
III
BBB+	or	Baa1
	
102.5	bps
2.5	bps
10.0	bps
IV
BBB	or	Baa2
115.0	bps
15.0	bps
12.5	bps
V
BBB-	or	Baa3
127.5	bps
27.5	bps
15.0	bps
VI
BB+	or	Ba1
152.5	bps
52.5	bps
25.0	bps
VII
<
	BB	or	Ba2
177.5	bps
77.5	bps
27.5	bps
	
	
	
	
	
For	purposes	of	the	foregoing,	(i)	if	the	ratings	established	or	deemed	to	have	been	established	by	Moody’s	and	S&P	for	the	Index
	
Debt	shall	fall	within	different	Levels,	the	Applicable	Rate	shall	be	based	on	the	higher	of	the	two	ratings	(i.e.,	the	higher	Level)
	
unless	one	of	the	two	ratings	is	two	or	more	Levels	lower	than	the	other,	in	which	case	the	Applicable	Rate	shall	be	determined	by
	
reference	to	the	Level	next	below	the	higher	of	the	two	Levels	(it	being	understood	that	Level	I	is	the	highest	Level	and	Level	VII	is
	
the	lowest	Level);	(ii)	if	the	ratings	established	or	deemed	to	have	been	established	by	Moody’s	and	S&P	for	the	Index	Debt	shall	be
	
changed	(other	than	as	a	result	of	a	change	in	the	rating	system	of	Moody’s	or	S&P),	such	change	shall	be	effective	as	of	the	date
	
on	which	it	is	first	announced	by	the	applicable	rating	agency,	irrespective	of	when	notice	of	such	change	shall	have	been	furnished
	
by	the	Borrower	to	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	
Section	5.01
	or	otherwise	and	(iii)	if	either	Moody’s	or
	
S&P	shall	not	have	in	effect	a	rating	for	the	Index	Debt	(other	than	by	reason	of	the	circumstances	described	in	the	last	sentence	of
	
this	definition),	then	such	rating	agency	shall	be	deemed	to	have	established	a	rating	equivalent	to	the	rating	of	the	other	rating
	
agency.		Each	change	in	the	Applicable	Rate	shall	apply	during	the	period	commencing	on	the	effective	date	of	such	change	and
	
ending	on	the	date	immediately	preceding	the	effective	date	of	the	next	such	change.		If	the	rating	system	of	Moody’s	or	S&P
	
changes,	or	if	either	such	rating	agency	ceases	to	be	in	the	business	of	rating	corporate	debt	obligations,	the	Borrower	and	the
	
Lenders	shall	negotiate	in	good	faith	to	amend	this	definition	to	reflect	such	changed	rating	system	or	the	unavailability	of	ratings
	
from	such	rating	agency	and,	pending	the	effectiveness	of	any	such	amendment,	the	Applicable	Rate	shall	be	determined	by
	
reference	to	the	rating	most	recently	in	effect	prior	to	such	change	or	cessation.
“
Prime	Rate
”	means	the	rate	of	interest	per	annum	announced	from	time	to	time	by	the	Administrative	Agent	to
	
be	its	prime	rate	in	effect	at	its	principal	office	in	New	York	City.		Each	change	in	the	Prime	Rate	shall	be	effective	from	and
	
including	the	date	such	change	is	publicly	announced	or	quoted	as	being	effective.
26
	“
Project
”	means	an	Energy	Storage	System	together	with	all	associated	real	property	rights,	rights	under	the
	
applicable	Host	Customer	Agreement,	and	all	other	related	rights	to	the	extent	applicable	thereto,	including	without	limitation,	all
	
parts	and	manufacturers’	warranties	and	rights	to	access	customer	data.
“
PTE
”	means	a	prohibited	transaction	class	exemption	issued	by	the	U.S.	Department	of	Labor,	as	any	such
	
exemption	may	be	amended	from	time	to	time.
“
QFC
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	the	term	“qualified	financial	contract”	in,	and	shall	be	interpreted	in
	
accordance	with,	12	U.S.C.	5390(c)(8)(D).
“
QFC	Credit	Support
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	9.18
.
“
Quarterly	Payment	Dates
”	means	the	last	Business	Day	of	March,	June,	September	and	December	in	each	year,
	
the	first	of	which	shall	be	March	31,	2023.
	“
Recipient
”	means	(a)	the	Administrative	Agent,	(b)	any	Lender	and	(c)	any	Issuing	Bank,	as	applicable.
“
Register
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	9.04(b)(iv)
.
“
Registered	Equivalent	Notes
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	notes	originally	issued	in	a	Rule	144A	or	other	private
	
placement	transaction	under	the	Securities	Act	of	1933,	substantially	identical	notes	(having	the	same	Guarantees)	issued	in	a
	
dollar-for-dollar	exchange	therefor	pursuant	to	an	exchange	offer	registered	with	the	SEC.
“
Regulation	D
”	means	Regulation	D	of	the	Federal	Reserve	Board,	as	in	effect	from	time	to	time	and	all	official
	
rulings	and	interpretations	thereunder	or	thereof.
“
Regulation	U
”	means	Regulation	U	of	the	Board	as	in	effect	from	time	to	time.
“
Related	Parties
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	specified	Person,	such	Person’s	Affiliates	and	the	respective
	
partners,	directors,	officers,	employees,	agents	and	advisors	of	such	Person	and	such	Person’s	Affiliates.
“
Relevant	Governmental	Body
”	means,	(a)	with	respect	to	a	Benchmark	Replacement	in	respect	of	Obligations,
	
interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts	denominated	in,	or	calculated	with	respect	to,	Dollars,	the	Federal	Reserve	Board	or
	
the	Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	New	York,	or	a	committee	officially	endorsed	or	convened	by	the	Federal	Reserve	Board	or	the	Federal
	
Reserve	Bank	of	New	York,	or	any	successor	thereto	and	(b)	with	respect	to	a	Benchmark	Replacement	in	respect	of	Obligations,
	
interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts	denominated	in,	or	calculated	with	respect	to,	any	Foreign	Currency,	(1)	the	central
	
bank	for	the	Foreign	Currency	in	which	such	Obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts	are	denominated,	or
	
calculated	with	respect	to,	or	any	central	bank	or	other	supervisor	which	is	responsible	for	supervising	either	(A)	such	Benchmark
	
Replacement	or	(B)	the	administrator	of	such	Benchmark	Replacement	or	(2)	any	working	group	or	committee	officially	endorsed	or
	
convened	by	(A)	the	central	bank	for	the	Foreign	Currency	in	which	such	Obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts
	
are	denominated,	or	calculated	with	respect	to,	(B)	any	central	bank	or	other	supervisor	that	is	responsible	for	supervising	either	(i)
	
such	Benchmark	Replacement	or	(ii)	the	administrator	of	such	Benchmark	Replacement,	(C)	a	group	of	those	central	banks	or	other
	
supervisors	or	(D)	the	Financial	Stability	Board	or	any	part	thereof.
27
	“
Relevant	Rate
”	means	
(i)
	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Dollars,	the	Adjusted
	
Term	SOFR	Rate,	(ii)	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Euros,	the	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate	or	(iii)
	
with	respect	to	any	Borrowing	denominated	in	Pounds	Sterling,	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA.
“
Removal	Effective	Date
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	8.03
.
“
Rental	Account	Assets
”	means	(i)	Rental	Accounts	and	related	payment	intangibles,	chattel	paper,	electronic
	
chattel	paper,	payments,	rights	to	current	and	future	lease	or	rental	payments	or	residuals	and	similar	rights	to	payment,	in	each
	
case	relating	to	Rental	Accounts,	together	with	interests	in	merchandise	or	goods	the	lease	or	rental	of	which	give	rise	to	such
	
payment	rights	and	proceeds,	related	contractual	rights,	guarantees,	insurance	proceeds,	books	and	records,	collections,	proceeds
	
of	the	foregoing	and	beneficial	interests	and	the	proceeds	of	beneficial	interests	in	all	of	the	foregoing,	and	(ii)	Equity	Interests	in
	
Tesla	Finance	Subsidiaries	and	the	proceeds	thereof.
“
Rental	Accounts
”	means	accounts	arising	out	of	customer	lease	or	rental	agreements.
“
Replacement	Lender
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	2.19(c)
.
“
Required	Lenders
”	means,	subject	to	
Section	2.20
,	at	any	time,	Lenders	having	Credit	Exposures	and	unused
	
Commitments	representing	more	than	50%	of	the	sum	of	the	Total	Credit	Exposure	and	unused	Commitments	at	such	time.
“
Reset	Date
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	2.18(a)
.
“
Resignation	Effective	Date
”	has	the	meaning	set	forth	in	
Section	8.03
.
“
Resolution	Authority
”	means	an	EEA	Resolution	Authority	or,	with	respect	to	any	UK	Financial	Institution,	a	UK
	
Resolution	Authority.
“
Responsible	Officer
”	means	the	chief	executive	officer,	the	president,	the	chief	operating	officer,	the	chief
	
financial	officer,	the	treasurer	or	any	other	senior	or	executive	officer	of	a	Person.
“
Restricted	Payment
”	means	any	dividend	or	other	distribution	(whether	in	cash,	securities	or	other	property)
	
with	respect	to	any	Equity	Interests	in	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary,	or	any	payment	(whether	in	cash,	securities	or
	
other	property),	including	any	sinking	fund	or	similar	deposit,	on	account	of	the	purchase,	redemption,	retirement,	acquisition,
	
cancellation	or	termination	of	any	such	Equity	Interests	in	the	Borrower	or	any	option,	warrant	or	other	right	to	acquire	any	such
	
Equity	Interests	in	the	Borrower.
“
Restricted	Subsidiary
”	means	any	Subsidiary	other	than	an	Unrestricted	Subsidiary.		Any	Subsidiary	designated
	
as	an	Unrestricted	Subsidiary	may	be	re-designated	as	a	Restricted	Subsidiary,	pursuant	to	a	certificate	of	an	Authorized	Officer	of
	
the	Borrower	delivered	to	the	Administrative	Agent	for	such	purposes,	as	long	as,	after	giving	effect	thereto,	no	Event	of	Default
	
has	occurred	and	is	continuing.
“
Revolving	Credit	Exposure
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Lender	at	any	time,	the	sum	of	the	outstanding	principal
	
amount	of	such	Lender’s	Loans	at	such	time	(including	the	Dollar	Amount	of	any	such	Lender’s	Loans	denominated	in	Euros	or
	
Pounds	Sterling,	as	applicable).
28
	“
S&P
”	means	S&P	Global	Ratings.
“
Sanctioned	Country
”	means	a	country,	region	or	territory	which	is	itself	the	target	of	any	countrywide,	region-
wide	or	territory-wide	Sanctions	(at	the	time	of	this	Agreement,	the	Crimea,	the	so-called	Donetsk	People’s	Republic,	the	so-called
	
Luhansk	People’s	Republic,	and	the	non-government	controlled	areas	of	the	Kherson	and	Zaporizhzhia	regions	of	Ukraine,	Cuba,
	
Iran,	North	Korea	and	Syria).
	
“
Sanctioned	Person
”	means	(a)	any	Person	listed	in	any	Sanctions-related	list	of	designated	persons	maintained	by
	
the	U.S.	government,	including	individuals	or	entities	named	on	the	Office	of	Foreign	Assets	Control	of	the	U.S.	Department	of	the
	
Treasury’s	Specially	Designated	Nationals	List	and	Blocked	Persons	List,	Foreign	Sanctions	Evaders	Lists	and,	to	the	extent
	
dealings	are	prohibited,	Persons	named	on	the	Sectoral	Sanctions	Identifications	List,	or	by	the	United	Nations	Security	Council,
	
the	United	Kingdom	or	the	European	Union,	or	any	E.U.	member	state	with	jurisdiction	over	the	parties	hereto,	(b)	any	Person
	
located,	organized	or	ordinarily	resident	in	a	Sanctioned	Country	or	(c)	any	Person	owned	or	controlled	by	any	such	Person	or
	
Persons	described	in	
clauses	(a)
	or	
(b)
	hereof.
	
“
Sanctions
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Person,	all	economic	or	financial	sanctions	or	trade	embargoes	imposed,
	
administered	or	enforced	from	time	to	time	by	(a)	the	U.S.	government,	including	those	administered	by	the	Office	of	Foreign
	
Assets	Control	of	the	U.S.	Department	of	the	Treasury	or	the	U.S.	Department	of	State	or	(b)	the	United	Nations	Security	Council,
	
the	European	Union,	any	E.U.	member	state	with	jurisdiction	over	the	parties	hereto	or	His	Majesty’s	Treasury	of	the	United
	
Kingdom.
“
SEC
”	means	the	U.S.	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	or	any	successor	thereto.
“
Securitization	Subsidiary
”	means	a	wholly-owned	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower	that	is	a	special	purpose	vehicle
	
that	has	been	established	for	the	sole	purpose	of	facilitating	a	financing	in	connection	with	a	Securitization	Transaction	permitted
	
by	this	Agreement	and	that	shall	not	engage	in	any	activities	other	than	in	connection	with	such	Securitization	Transaction.	For	the
	
avoidance	of	doubt,	an	Excluded	Charging	Subsidiary,	an	Excluded	Energy	Storage	Subsidiary	and	any	Tesla	Finance	Subsidiary
	
may	be	a	Securitization	Subsidiary.
“
Securitization	Transaction
”	means	(i)	any	transaction	or	series	of	transactions	that	may	be	entered	into	by	the
	
Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	pursuant	to	which	the	Borrower	or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary	may	warehouse,	sell,	convey
	
or	otherwise	transfer	a	discrete	pool	of	assets	(whether	now	existing	or	arising	in	the	future)	to	(a)	a	Securitization	Subsidiary	(in
	
the	case	of	a	transfer	by	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	other	than	a	Securitization	Subsidiary)	and	(b)	any	other	Person
	
(in	the	case	of	a	transfer	by	a	Securitization	Subsidiary),	for	the	purpose	of	the	incurrence	by	such	other	Person	of	Indebtedness
	
secured	by	a	Lien	on,	or	backed	by	the	cash	proceeds	of,	such	assets	(or	beneficial	interests	of	such	assets)	or	of	certificates
	
representing	beneficial	interests	in	such	assets	or	(ii)	any	transaction	or	series	of	transactions	(including	borrowings	pursuant	to
	
any	credit	agreement)	that	may	be	entered	into	by	any	Securitization	Subsidiary	pursuant	to	which	such	Securitization	Subsidiary
	
may	grant	a	security	interest	in	its	assets	(whether	now	existing	or	arising	in	the	future)	in	connection	with	the	incurrence	of
	
Indebtedness	by	such	Securitization	Subsidiary.
“
Significant	Subsidiary
”	means,	at	any	time,	any	Subsidiary	that	is	not	an	Immaterial	Subsidiary.
“
SOFR
”	means	a	rate	equal	to	the	secured	overnight	financing	rate	as	administered	by	the	SOFR	Administrator.
29
	“
SOFR	Administrator
”	means	the	Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	New	York	(or	a	successor	administrator	of	the	secured
	
overnight	financing	rate).
“
SOFR	Loan
”	means	a	Loan	that	bears	interest	at	a	rate	based	on	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	other	than
	
pursuant	to	
clause	(c)
	of	the	definition	of	“Alternate	Base	Rate.”
“
SONIA
”	means	a	rate	equal	to	the	Sterling	Overnight	Index	Average	as	administered	by	the	SONIA
	
Administrator,	and	when	used	in	reference	to	any	Loan	or	Borrowing,	refers	to	whether	such	Loan,	or	the	Loans	comprising	such
	
Borrowing,	are	bearing	interest	at	a	rate	determined	by	reference	to	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA.
“
SONIA	Administrator
”	means	the	Bank	of	England	(or	any	successor	administrator	of	the	Sterling	Overnight
	
Index	Average).
“
SONIA	Administrator’s	Website
”	means	the	Bank	of	England’s	website,	currently	at
	
http://www.bankofengland.co.uk,	or	any	successor	source	for	the	Sterling	Overnight	Index	Average	identified	as	such	by	the	SONIA
	
Administrator	from	time	to	time.
	
“
SONIA	Business	Day
”	means,	for	any	obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts	denominated	in,
	
or	calculated	with	respect	to	Pounds	Sterling,	any	day	except	for	(i)	a	Saturday,	(ii)	a	Sunday	or	(iii)	a	day	on	which	banks	are
	
closed	for	general	business	in	London.
“
SONIA	Rate	Day
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	the	definition	of	“Daily	Simple	SONIA”.
“
Specified	Borrower	Indebtedness
”	means	(i)	any	bonds,	notes,	debentures	and	other	debt	securities	issued	by	the
	
Borrower	pursuant	to	a	public	offering	or	Rule	144A	private	placement	(and	any	Registered	Equivalent	Notes	issued	in	exchange
	
therefor)	and	(ii)	any	syndicated	credit	facility	entered	into	by	the	Borrower.
“
Specified	Tesla	Subsidiary
”	means	any	Subsidiary	that	is	(i)	a	Securitization	Subsidiary,	(ii)	a	Tesla	Finance
	
Subsidiary,	(iii)	an	Excluded	Charging	Subsidiary,	(iv)	an	Excluded	Energy	Storage	Subsidiary,	(v)	an	Insurance	Subsidiary,	(vi)	an
	
Effective	Date	TEO	Subsidiary	or	(vii)	any	direct	or	indirect	subsidiary	of	TEO	formed	primarily	for	the	purpose	of	incurring
	
indebtedness	permitted	under	
Section	6.08(m)
.
“
Standard	Securitization	Undertakings
”	means	representations,	warranties,	covenants	and	indemnities	entered
	
into	by	the	Borrower	or	any	Subsidiary	that	are	reasonably	customary	in	a	Securitization	Transaction,	including	those	relating	to
	
the	servicing	of	the	assets	of	a	Securitization	Transaction	(it	being	understood	that	in	no	event	shall	Standard	Securitization
	
Undertakings	include	any	Guarantee	of	Indebtedness	incurred	in	connection	with	the	relevant	Securitization	Transaction,	other
	
than	Liens	satisfying	the	requirements	of	
paragraph	(k)
	of	the	definition	of	“Permitted	Encumbrances”	herein).
“
Stated	Amount
”	or	“
Stated	Amounts
”	means	the	stated	or	face	amount	of	such	Letter	of	Credit	to	the	extent
	
available	at	the	time	for	drawing	(subject	to	presentment	of	all	requisite	documents),	as	the	same	may	be	increased	or	decreased
	
from	time	to	time	in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	such	Letter	of	Credit.		For	purposes	of	calculating	the	Stated	Amount	of	any
	
Letter	of	Credit	at	any	time:
30
	(A)
any	increase	in	the	Stated	Amount	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	by	reason	of	any	amendment	to	any	Letter	of
	
Credit	shall	be	deemed	effective	under	this	Agreement	as	of	the	date	the	relevant	Issuing	Bank	actually	issues	an	amendment
	
purporting	to	increase	the	Stated	Amount	of	such	Letter	of	Credit,	whether	or	not	such	Issuing	Bank	receives	the	consent	of	the
	
Letter	of	Credit	beneficiary	or	beneficiaries	to	the	amendment,	except	that	if	the	Borrower	has	required	that	the	increase	in	Stated
	
Amount	be	given	effect	as	of	an	earlier	date	and	such	Issuing	Bank	issues	an	amendment	to	that	effect,	then	such	increase	in	Stated
	
Amount	shall	be	deemed	effective	under	this	Agreement	as	of	such	earlier	date	requested	by	the	Borrower;	and
(B)
any	reduction	in	the	Stated	Amount	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	by	reason	of	any	amendment	to	any	Letter	of
	
Credit	shall	be	deemed	effective	under	this	Agreement	as	of	the	later	of	(x)	the	date	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	actually	issues	an
	
amendment	purporting	to	reduce	the	Stated	Amount	of	such	Letter	of	Credit,	whether	or	not	the	amendment	provides	that	the
	
reduction	be	given	effect	as	of	an	earlier	date	or	(y)	the	date	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	receives	the	written	consent	of	the	Letter
	
of	Credit	beneficiary	or	beneficiaries	to	such	reduction,	whether	written	consent	must	be	dated	on	o
r	after	the	date	of	the	amendment
	
issued	by	such	Issuing	Bank	purporting	to	effect	such	reduction.
“
Statutory	Reserve	Percentage
”	means,	for	any	day	during	any	Interest	Period,	the	reserve	percentage	in	effect
	
on	such	day,	whether	or	not	applicable	to	any	Lender,	under	regulations	issued	from	time	to	time	by	the	Federal	Reserve	Board	for
	
determining	the	maximum	reserve	requirement	(including	any	emergency,	special,	supplemental	or	other	marginal	reserve
	
requirement)	with	respect	to	eurocurrency	funding	(currently	referred	to	as	“Eurocurrency	liabilities”	in	Regulation	D)	or	any	other
	
reserve	ratio	or	analogous	requirement	of	any	central	banking	or	financial	regulatory	authority	imposed	in	respect	of	the
	
maintenance	of	the	Commitments	or	the	funding	of	the	Loans.		The	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate	for	each	outstanding	Loan	shall	be
	
adjusted	automatically	as	of	the	effective	date	of	any	change	in	the	Statutory	Reserve	Percentage.
“
subsidiary
”	means,	with	respect	to	any	Person	(the	“
parent
”)	at	any	date,	any	corporation,	limited	liability
	
company,	partnership,	association	or	other	entity	the	accounts	of	which	would	be	consolidated	with	those	of	the	parent	in	the
	
parent’s	consolidated	financial	statements	if	such	financial	statements	were	prepared	in	accordance	with	GAAP	as	of	such	date,	as
	
well	as	any	other	corporation,	limited	liability	company,	partnership,	association	or	other	entity	of	which	securities	or	other
	
ownership	interests	representing	more	than	50%	of	the	equity	or	more	than	50%	of	the	ordinary	voting	power	or,	in	the	case	of	a
	
partnership,	more	than	50%	of	the	general	partnership	interests	are,	as	of	such	date,	owned,	controlled	or	held.
	
“
Subsidiary
”	means	any	subsidiary	of	the	Borrower.
“
Supported	QFC
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	9.18
.
“
Swap	Agreement
”	means	any	agreement	with	respect	to	any	swap,	forward,	future	or	derivative	transaction	or
	
option	or	similar	agreement	involving,	or	settled	by	reference	to,	one	or	more	rates,	currencies,	commodities,	equity	or	debt
	
instruments	or	securities,	or	economic,	financial	or	pricing	indices	or	measures	of	economic,	financial	or	pricing	risk	or	value	or	any
	
similar	transaction	or	any	combination	of	these	transactions;	
provided
	that	no	phantom	stock	or	similar	plan	providing	for	payments
	
only	on	account	of	services	provided	by	current	or	former	directors,	officers,	employees	or	consultants	of	the	Borrower	or	the
	
Restricted	Subsidiaries	shall	be	a	Swap	Agreement.
“
Syndication	Agent
”	means	Deutsche	Bank	Securities	Inc.,	in	its	capacity	as	syndication	agent.
31
	“
TARGET2
”	means	the	Trans-European	Automated	Real-time	Gross	Settlement	Express	Transfer	payment	system
	
which	utilizes	a	single	shared	platform	and	which	was	launched	on	November	19,	2007.
“
TARGET	Day
”	means	any	day	on	which	TARGET2	(or,	if	such	payment	system	ceases	to	be	operative,	such	other
	
payment	system,	if	any,	determined	by	the	Administrative	Agent	to	be	a	suitable	replacement)	is	open	for	the	settlement	of
	
payments	in	Euro.
“
Taxes
”	means	any	and	all	present	or	future	taxes,	levies,	imposts,	duties,	deductions,	charges	or	withholdings
	
(including	backup	withholdings)	imposed	by	any	Governmental	Authority,	including	any	interest,	additions	to	tax	or	penalties
	
applicable	thereto.
	
“
TEO
”	means	Tesla	Energy	Operations,	Inc.,	a	Delaware	corporation.
“
Term	Benchmark
”	when	used	in	reference	to	any	Loan	or	Borrowing,	refers	to	whether	such	Loan,	or	the	Loans
	
comprising	such	Borrowing,	are	bearing	interest	at	a	rate	determined	by	reference	to	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	or	the	Adjusted
	
EURIBOR	Rate.
“
Term	SOFR
”	means:
	
(a)	for	any	calculation	with	respect	to	a	SOFR	Loan,	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	for	a	tenor	comparable	to	the
	
applicable	Interest	Period	on	the	day	(such	day,	the	“
Periodic	Term	SOFR	Determination	Day
”)	that	is	two	(2)	U.S.	Government
	
Securities	Business	Days	prior	to	the	first	day	of	such	Interest	Period,	as	such	rate	is	published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator;
	
provided
,	
however
,	that	if	as	of	5:00	p.m.	(New	York	City	time)	on	any	Periodic	Term	SOFR	Determination	Day	the	Term	SOFR
	
Reference	Rate	for	the	applicable	tenor	has	not	been	published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator	and	a	Benchmark	Replacement
	
Date	with	respect	to	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	has	not	occurred,	then	Term	SOFR	will	be	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	for
	
such	tenor	as	published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator	on	the	first	(1
st
)	preceding	U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Day	for
	
which	such	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	for	such	tenor	was	published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator	so	long	as	such	first	(1
st
)
	
preceding	U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Day	is	not	more	than	three	(3)	U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Days	prior	to
	
such	Periodic	Term	SOFR	Determination	Day,	and
(b)	for	any	calculation	with	respect	to	an	ABR	Loan	on	any	day,	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	for	a	tenor	of	one
	
month	on	the	day	(such	day,	the	“
ABR	Term	SOFR	Determination	Day
”)	that	is	two	(2)	U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Days
	
prior	to	such	day,	as	such	rate	is	published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator;	
provided
,	
however
,	that	if	as	of	5:00	p.m.	(New	York
	
City	time)	on	any	ABR	Term	SOFR	Determination	Day	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	for	the	applicable	tenor	has	not	been
	
published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator	and	a	Benchmark	Replacement	Date	with	respect	to	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	has
	
not	occurred,	then	Term	SOFR	will	be	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	for	such	tenor	as	published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator
	
on	the	first	(1
st
)	preceding	U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Day	for	which	such	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	for	such	tenor	was
	
published	by	the	Term	SOFR	Administrator	so	long	as	such	first	(1
st
)	preceding	U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Day	is	not
	
more	than	three	(3)	U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Days	prior	to	such	ABR	Term	SOFR	Determination	Day.
	
“
Term	SOFR	Administrator
”	means	CME	Group	Benchmark	Administration	Limited	(CBA)	(or	a	successor
	
administrator	of	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate	selected	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	its	reasonable	discretion).
	
“
Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate
”	means	the	forward-looking	term	rate	based	on	SOFR.
32
	“
Tesla	Finance	Subsidiaries
”	means	(i)	Tesla	Finance,	LLC	and	its	subsidiaries	and	(ii)	Tesla	Financial	Services
	
Holdings	B.V.	and	its	subsidiaries,	including	Tesla	Financial	Services	Limited	and	Tesla	Financial	Services	GmbH.
“
Total	Available	Commitments
”	means,	at	any	time,	an	amount	equal	to	the	excess,	if	any,	of	(a)	the	total
	
Commitments	then	in	effect,	
over
	(b)	the	Total	Credit	Exposure.
“
Total	Credit	Exposure
”	means,	the	sum	of	the	Dollar	Amount	of	the	outstanding	principal	amount	of	all	Lenders’
	
Loans	and	their	LC	Exposure	at	such	time.
“
Transactions
”	means	the	(a)	execution,	delivery	and	performance	by	the	(i)	Borrower	of	this	Agreement	and	(ii)
	
Guarantors	of	the	Guarantee	Agreement,	(b)	borrowing	of	Loans	and	the	use	of	the	proceeds	thereof	and	(c)	the	issuance	of	Letters
	
of	Credit	hereunder.
“
Treaty
”	means	the	Treaty	establishing	the	European	Economic	Community,	being	the	Treaty	of	Rome	of	March
	
25,	1957,	as	amended	by	the	Single	European	Act	1987,	the	Maastricht	Treaty	(which	was	signed	at	Maastricht	on	February	7,
	
1992	and	came	into	force	on	November	1,	1993),	the	Amsterdam	Treaty	(which	was	signed	at	Amsterdam	on	October	2,	1997	and
	
came	into	force	on	May	1,	1999)	and	the	Nice	Treaty	(which	was	signed	on	February	26,	2001),	each	as	may	be	further	amended,
	
supplemented	or	otherwise	modified	from	time	to	time	and	as	referred	to	in	legislative	measures	of	the	European	Union	for	the
	
introduction	of,	changeover	to	or	operating	of	the	Euro	in	one	or	more	member	states.
“
Type
”,	when	used	in	reference	to	any	Loan	or	Borrowing,	refers	to	whether	the	rate	of	interest	on	such	Loan,	or
	
on	the	Loans	comprising	such	Borrowing,	is	determined	by	reference	to	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	the	Adjusted	EURIBOR
	
Rate,	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA	or	the	Alternate	Base	Rate.
“
UK	Financial	Institutions
”	means	any	BRRD	Undertaking	(as	such	term	is	defined	under	the	PRA	Rulebook	(as
	
amended	from	time	to	time)	promulgated	by	the	United	Kingdom	Prudential	Regulation	Authority)	or	any	person	falling	within
	
IFPRU	11.6	of	the	FCA	Handbook	(as	amended	from	time	to	time)	promulgated	by	the	United	Kingdom	Financial	Conduct
	
Authority,	which	includes	certain	credit	institutions	and	investment	firms,	and	certain	affiliates	of	such	credit	institutions	or
	
investment	firms.
“
UK	Resolution	Authority
”	means	the	Bank	of	England	or	any	other	public	administrative	authority	having
	
responsibility	for	the	resolution	of	any	UK	Financial	Institution.
“
Unadjusted	Benchmark	Replacement
”	means	the	applicable	Benchmark	Replacement	excluding	the	related
	
Benchmark	Replacement	Adjustment.
33
	“
Unrestricted	Subsidiary
”	means	any	Subsidiary	that	(a)	is	existing	as	of	the	Effective	Date,	(b)	is	a	Securitization
	
Subsidiary	or	(c)	is	not	a	Significant	Subsidiary	and,	in	each	case,	is	designated	as	an	Unrestricted	Subsidiary	by	the	Borrower	by
	
delivery	to	the	Administrative	Agent	after	the	date	hereof	of	a	certificate	of	an	Authorized	Officer	of	the	Borrower	(substantially	in
	
the	form	of	
Exhibit	H
	hereto);	
provided
	that	in	each	such	case,	such	Subsidiary	shall	satisfy	the	following	conditions:
	
(1)	no	portion	of	the	Indebtedness	or	any	other	obligations	(contingent	or	otherwise)	of	the	Subsidiary,
(a)
is	gu
aranteed	by	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	(excluding	in	the	case	of	a
	
Securitization	Subsidiary,	pursuant	to	Standard	Securitization	Undertakings),
(b)
is	recourse	to	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary,	other	than	(to	the	extent	applicable)
	
pursuant	to	Standard	Securitization	Undertaking,	or
(c)
subjects	any	property	or	asset	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary,	directly	or
	
indirectly,	contingently	or	otherwise,	to	the	satisfaction	thereof,	other	than	Liens	satisfying	the
	
requirements	of	
paragraph	(k)
	of	the	definition	of	“Permitted	Enc
umbrances”	or,	in	the	case	of	a
	
Securitization	Subsidiary,	pursuant	to	Standard	Securitization	Undertakings;
(2)	neither	the	Borrower	nor	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	has	any	material	contract,	agreement,	arrangement	or
	
understanding	with	the	Subsidiary,	other	than	(x)	Standard	Securitization	Undertakings	or	(y)	on	terms
	
(taken	as	a	whole)	no	less	favorable	to	the	Borrower	or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary	than	those	that	might
	
be	obtained	at	the	time	from	Persons	that	are	not	Affiliates	of	the	Borrower;	and
(3)	neither	the	Borrower	nor	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	has	any	obligation	to	maintain	or	preserve	the	Subsidiary’s
	
financial	condition	or	cause	the	Subsidiary	to	achieve	certain	levels	of	operating	results.
“
U.S.	Government	Securities	Business	Day
”	means	any	day	except	for	(i)	a	Saturday,	(ii)	a	Sunday	or	(iii)	a	day	on
	
which	the	Securities	Industry	and	Financial	Markets	Association	recommends	that	the	fixed	income	departments	of	its	members	be
	
closed	for	the	entire	day	for	purposes	of	trading	in	United	States	government	securities.
“
U.S.	Special	Resolution	Regimes
”	has	the	meaning	assigned	to	it	in	
Section	9.18
.
“
U.S.	Tax	Compliance	Certificate
”	means	a	certificate	substantially	in	the	form	of	
Exhibits	I-1
	through	
I-4
	hereto,
	
as	applicable.
“
Used
”	shall	mean,	with	respect	to	any	inventory,	that	such	inventory	was	previously	sold	(other	than	to	a	Loan
	
Party),	excluding	remanufactured	items.
“
Used	Motor	Vehicles
”	means	all	Used	motor	vehicles	owned	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries.
“
Vehicle	Environmental	Attribute
”	means	any	credit,	benefit,	reduction,	offset	or	allowance,	howsoever	entitled	or
	
named,	relating	to	the	emissions	or	environmental	impacts	that	result
	
34
	from,	are	attributable	to,	or	are	associated	with	a	vehicle,	a	vehicle’s	use,	or	a	vehicle	charging	station	that	is	capable	of	being
	
measured,	verified	or	calculated	and	in	any	case	may	be	lawfully	marketed	to	third	parties.		By	way	of	illustration,	Vehicle
	
Environmental	Attributes	may	result	from:	new	energy	vehicles;	zero	emission	vehicles;	fuel	economy;	avoided	criteria	air
	
pollutants,	CO2	or	greenhouse	gas	emissions;	low	carbon,	renewable	or	clean	fuel;	and	other	credits	and	offsets	defined	under	any
	
applicable	vehicle	and	charging-related	private	or	governmental	program,	including,	without	limitation,	the	following	credits:
	
California	LEV	III	NMOG	+NOx,	US	CAFE,	US	GHG,	US	Tier	3	NMOG	+	NOx,	Canada	GHG,	Quebec	ZEV,	EU	CO2	Pooling,	and
	
Switzerland	GHG	Credits	and	Low	Carbon	Fuel	Standards	credits.		Notwithstanding	any	of	the	foregoing	in	this	definition	or	any
	
other	provision	of	this	Agreement,	Vehicle	Environmental	Attributes	shall	not	include:	(i)	any	of	the	foregoing	obtained	by,	provided
	
to,	used	by	or	necessary	for	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries	to	conduct	any	of	its	operations	at	any	location;	or	(ii)	any
	
automotive	tax	credits.
“
Withdrawal	Liability
”	means	liability	to	a	Multiemployer	Plan	as	a	result	of	a	complete	or	partial	withdrawal	from
	
such	Multiemployer	Plan,	as	such	terms	are	defined	in	Part	I	of	Subtitle	E	of	Title	IV	of	ERISA.
“
Withholding	Agent
”	means	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent.
	
“
Write-Down	and	Conversion	Powers
”	means,	(a)	with	respect	to	any	EEA	Resolution	Authority,	the	write-down
	
and	conversion	powers	of	such	EEA	Resolution	Authority	from	time	to	time	under	the	Bail-In	Legislation	for	the	applicable	EEA
	
Member	Country,	which	write-down	and	conversion	powers	are	described	in	the	EU	Bail-In	Legislation	Schedule	and	(b)	with
	
respect	to	the	United	Kingdom,		any	powers	of	the	applicable	Resolution	Authority	under	the	Bail-In	Legislation	to	cancel,	reduce,
	
modify	or	change	the	form	of	a	liability	of	any	UK	Financial	Institution	or	any	contract	or	instrument	under	which	that	liability
	
arises,	to	convert	all	or	part	of	that	liability	into	shares,	securities	or	obligations	of	that	person	or	any	other	person,	to	provide	that
	
any	such	contract	or	instrument	is	to	have	effect	as	if	a	right	had	been	exercised	under	it	or	to	suspend	any	obligation	in	respect	of
	
that	liability	or	any	of	the	powers	under	that	Bail-In	Legislation	that	are	related	to	or	ancillary	to	any	of	those	powers.
SECTION	1.02.		
Classification	of	Loans	and	Borrowings
.		For	purposes	of	this	Agreement,	Loans	may	be	classified
	
and	referred	to	by	Type	(e.g.,	a	“Term	Benchmark	Loan”,	“SONIA	Loan”	or	“ABR	Loan”).		Borrowings	also	may	be	classified	and
	
referred	to	by	Type	(e.g.,	a	“Term	Benchmark	Borrowing”,	“SONIA	Borrowing”	or	“ABR	Borrowing”).
SECTION	1.03.		
Terms	Generally
.		The	definitions	of	terms	herein	shall	apply	equally	to	the	singular	and	plural
	
forms	of	the	terms	defined.		Whenever	the	context	may	require,	any	pronoun	shall	include	the	corresponding	masculine,	feminine
	
and	neuter	forms.		The	words	“include”,	“includes”	and	“including”	shall	be	deemed	to	be	followed	by	the	phrase	“without
	
limitation.”		The	word	“will”	shall	be	construed	to	have	the	same	meaning	and	effect	as	the	word	“shall.”		Unless	the	context
	
requires	otherwise	(a)	any	definition	of	or	reference	to	any	agreement,	instrument	or	other	document	herein	shall	be	construed	as
	
referring	to	such	agreement,	instrument	or	other	document	as	from	time	to	time	amended,	amended	and	restated,	supplemented	or
	
otherwise	modified	(subject	to	any	restrictions	on	such	amendments,	supplements	or	modifications	set	forth	herein)	and	any
	
definition	of	or	reference	to	any	law,	statute,	regulation,	rule	or	other	legislative	action	shall	mean	such	law,	statute,	regulation,
	
rule	or	other	legislative	action	as	amended,	supplemented	or	otherwise	modified	from	time	to	time,	(b)	any	reference	herein	to	any
	
Person	shall	be	construed	to	include	such	Person’s	successors	and	assigns,	(c)	the	words	“herein”,	“hereof”	and	“hereunder”,	and
	
words	of	similar	import,	shall	be	construed	to	refer	to	this	Agreement	in	its	entirety	and	not	to	any	particular	provision	hereof,	(d)
	
all	references	herein	to	Articles,	Sections,	Exhibits	and	Schedules	shall	be	construed	to	refer	to	Articles	and	Sections	of,	and
	
Exhibits	and	Schedules	to,	this	Agreement,	(e)	any	reference	to	any	law,	rule	or	regulation	herein	shall,	unless
	
35
	otherwise	specified,	refer	to	such	law,	rule	or	regulation	as	amended,	modified	or	supplemented	from	time	to	time	and	(f)	the	words
	
“asset”	and	“property”	shall	be	construed	to	have	the	same	meaning	and	effect	and	to	refer	to	any	and	all	tangible	and	intangible
	
assets	and	properties,	including	cash,	securities,	accounts	and	contract	rights.
	
SECTION	1.04.		
Accounting	Terms;	GAAP
.		Except	as	otherwise	expressly	provided	herein,	all	terms	of	an
	
accounting	or	financial	nature	shall	be	construed	in	accordance	with	GAAP,	as	in	effect	from	time	to	time;	
provided
	that,	if	the
	
Borrower	notifies	the	Administrative	Agent	that	the	Borrower	requests	an	amendment	to	any	provision	hereof	to	eliminate	the
	
effect	of	any	change	occurring	after	the	date	hereof	in	GAAP	or	in	the	application	thereof	on	the	operation	of	such	provision	(or	if
	
the	Administrative	Agent	notifies	the	Borrower	that	the	Required	Lenders	request	an	amendment	to	any	provision	hereof	for	such
	
purpose),	regardless	of	whether	any	such	notice	is	given	before	or	after	such	change	in	GAAP	or	in	the	application	thereof,	then
	
such	provision	shall	be	interpreted	on	the	basis	of	GAAP	as	in	effect	and	applied	immediately	before	such	change	shall	have	become
	
effective	until	such	notice	shall	have	been	withdrawn	or	such	provision	amended	in	accordance	herewith.	Notwithstanding	any
	
other	provision	contained	herein,	(a)	any	election	under	Financial	Accounting	Standards	Board	Accounting	Standards	Codification
	
825	(or	any	other	Financial	Accounting	Standard	having	a	similar	result	or	effect)	to	value	any	Indebtedness	or	other	liabilities	of
	
the	Borrower	or	any	Subsidiary	at	“fair	value”,	as	defined	therein	and	(b)	any	treatment	of	Indebtedness	under	Accounting
	
Standards	Codification	470-20	or	2015-03	(or	any	other	Accounting	Standards	Codification	or	Financial	Accounting	Standard
	
having	a	similar	result	or	effect)	to	value	any	such	Indebtedness	in	a	reduced	or	bifurcated	manner	as	described	therein,	and	such
	
Indebtedness	shall	at	all	times	be	valued	at	the	full	stated	principal	amount	thereof.
SECTION	1.05.		
Currency	Equivalents	Generally
.		(a)	If	more	than	one	currency	or	currency	unit	are	at	the	same
	
time	recognized	by	the	central	bank	of	any	country	as	the	lawful	currency	of	that	country,	then	(i)	any	reference	in	this	Agreement
	
to,	and	any	obligations	arising	under	this	Agreement	in,	the	currency	of	that	country	shall	be	translated	into	or	paid	in	the	currency
	
or	currency	unit	of	that	country	designated	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	(ii)	any	translation	from	one	currency	or	currency	unit
	
to	another	shall	be	at	the	official	rate	of	exchange	recognized	by	the	central	bank	for	conversion	of	that	currency	or	currency	unit
	
into	the	other,	rounded	to	the	nearest	thousandth	by	the	Administrative	Agent	as	it	reasonably	deems	appropriate.
(b)	
If	a	change	in	any	currency	of	a	country	occurs,	this	Agreement	shall	be	amended	(and	each	party	hereto
	
agrees	to	enter	into	any	supplemental	agreements	necessary	to	effect	any	such	amendment)	to	the	extent	that	the	Administrative
	
Agent	and	the	Borrower	reasonably	determine	such	amendment	to	be	necessary	to	reflect	the	change	in	currency	and	to	put	the
	
Lenders	in	the	same	position,	so	far	as	possible,	that	they	would	have	been	in	if	no	change	in	currency	had	occurred.
SECTION	1.06.		
Interest	Rates
.		The	Administrative	Agent	does	not	warrant	or	accept	any	responsibility	for,	and
	
shall	not	have	any	liability	with	respect	to	(a)	the	continuation	of,	administration	of,	submission	of,	calculation	of	or	any	other
	
matter	related	to	ABR,	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate,	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	Term	SOFR,	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,
	
EURIBOR,	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA,	SONIA	or	any	component	definition	thereof	or	rates	referred	to	in	the	definition	thereof,	or	any
	
alternative,	successor	or	replacement	rate	thereto	(including	any	Benchmark	Replacement),	including	whether	the	composition	or
	
characteristics	of	any	such	alternative,	successor	or	replacement	rate	(including	any	Benchmark	Replacement)	will	be	similar	to,	or
	
produce	the	same	value	or	economic	equivalence	of,	or	have	the	same	volume	or	liquidity	as,	ABR,	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate,
	
Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	Term	SOFR,	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,	EURIBOR,	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA,	SONIA	or	any	other
	
Benchmark	prior	to	its	discontinuance	or	unavailability	or	(b)	the	effect,	implementation	or	composition	of	any	Conforming
	
Changes.		The	Administrative	Agent	and	its	affiliates
	
36
	or	other	related	entities	may	engage	in	transactions	that	affect	the	calculation	of	ABR,	the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate,	Term	SOFR,
	
Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,	EURIBOR,	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA,	SONIA	any	alternative,	successor	or
	
replacement	rate	(including	any	Benchmark	Replacement)	or	any	relevant	adjustments	thereto,	in	each	case,	in	a	manner	adverse
	
to	the	Borrower.		The	Administrative	Agent	may	select	information	sources	or	services	in	its	reasonable	discretion	to	ascertain	ABR,
	
the	Term	SOFR	Reference	Rate,	Term	SOFR,	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,	EURIBOR,	the	Daily	Simple
	
SONIA,	SONIA	or	any	other	Benchmark,	any	component	definition	thereof	or	rates	referred	to	in	the	definition	thereof,	in	each	case
	
pursuant	to	the	terms	of	this	Agreement,	and	shall	have	no	liability	to	the	Borrower,	any	Lender	or	any	other	person	or	entity	for
	
damages	of	any	kind,	including	direct	or	indirect,	special,	punitive,	incidental	or	consequential	damages,	costs,	losses	or	expenses
	
(whether	in	tort,	contract	or	otherwise	and	whether	at	law	or	in	equity),	for	any	error	or	calculation	of	any	such	rate	(or	component
	
thereof)	provided	by	any	such	information	source	or	service.
SECTION	1.07.		
Divisions
.		For	all	purposes	under	this	Agreement,	in	connection	with	any	division	or	plan	of
	
division	under	Delaware	law	(or	any	comparable	event	under	a	different	jurisdiction’s	laws):	(a)	if	any	asset,	right,	obligation	or
	
liability	of	any	Person	becomes	the	asset,	right,	obligation	or	liability	of	a	different	Person,	then	it	shall	be	deemed	to	have	been
	
transferred	from	the	original	Person	to	the	subsequent	Person	and	(b)	if	any	new	Person	comes	into	existence,	such	new	Person
	
shall	be	deemed	to	have	been	organized	and	acquired	on	the	first	date	of	its	existence	by	the	holders	of	its	Equity	Interests	at	such
	
time.
Article	II
The	Credits
SECTION	2.01.		
Commitments
.		Subject	to	the	terms	and	conditions	set	forth	herein,	each	Lender	severally	and
	
not	jointly	agrees	to	make	revolving	loans	denominated	in	Dollars,	Euros	and	Pounds	Sterling	(the	“
Loans
”)	to	the	Borrower	from
	
time	to	time	during	the	Availability	Period	in	an	aggregate	principal	amount	that	will	not	result	in	(x)	such	Lender’s	Credit
	
Exposure	exceeding	such	Lender’s	Commitment	or	(y)	the	Total	Credit	Exposure	exceeding	the	total	Commitments.		Within	the
	
foregoing	limits	and	subject	to	the	terms	and	conditions	set	forth	herein,	the	Borrower	may	borrow,	prepay	and	reborrow	Loans.
		
No	portion	of	the	Loan	will	be	funded	(initially	or	through	participation,	assignment,	transfer	or	securitization)	with	plan	assets	of
	
any	Benefit	Plan	if	it	would	cause	the	Borrower	to	incur	any	prohibited	transaction	excise	tax	penalties	under	Section	4975	of	the
	
Code	or	otherwise	result	in	a	non-exempt	prohibited	transaction.
	
SECTION	2.02.		
Loans	and	Borrowings
.		(a)		Each	Loan	shall	be	made	as	part	of	a	Borrowing	consisting	of	Loans
	
made	by	the	Lenders	ratably	in	accordance	with	their	respective	Commitments.		The	failure	of	any	Lender	under	the	Facility	to
	
make	any	Loan	required	to	be	made	by	it	shall	not	relieve	any	other	Lender	under	the	Facility	of	its	obligations	hereunder;	
provided
	
that	the	Commitments	of	the	Lenders	are	several	and	no	Lender	shall	be	responsible	for	any	other	Lender’s	failure	to	make	Loans
	
as	required.
37
	(b)	
Subject	to	
Section	2.13
	and	
Section	2.21
,	(i)	each	Borrowing	denominated	in	Dollars	shall	be	available	in	the
	
Funding	Office	and	consist	entirely	of	ABR	Loans	or	Term	Benchmark	Loans	bearing	interest	at	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	(ii)
	
each	Borrowing	denominated	in	Pounds	Sterling	shall	be	available	in	the	Funding	Office	and	consist	entirely	of	SONIA	Loans	and
	
(iii)	each	Borrowing	denominated	in	Euros	shall	be	available	in	the	Funding	Office	and	consist	entirely	of	Term	Benchmark	Loans
	
bearing	interest	at	the	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate.		Each	Lender	at	its	option	may	make	any	Loan	by	causing	any	domestic	or	foreign
	
branch	or	Affiliate	of	such	Lender	to	make	such	Loan;	
provided
	that	(i)	any	exercise	of	such	option	shall	not	affect	the	obligation	of
	
the	Borrower	to	repay	such	Loan	in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	this	Agreement	and	(ii)	any	such	domestic	or	foreign	branch	or
	
Affiliate	of	such	Lender	shall	not	be	entitled	to	request	compensation	under	
Section	2.14
	at	the	time	such	Loan	is	made.
(c)	
At	the	commencement	of	each	Interest	Period	for	any	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	such	Borrowing	shall	be
	
in	an	aggregate	amount	that	is	an	integral	multiple	of	$1,000,000	(and	not	less	than	$10,000,000)	(in	the	case	of	Euros,	an	integral
	
multiple	of	€1,000,000	and	not	less	than	€10,000,000).		At	the	time	that	each	ABR	Borrowing	is	made,	such	Borrowing	shall	be	in
	
an	aggregate	amount	that	is	an	integral	multiple	of	$1,000,000	and	not	less	than	$1,000,000;	
provided
	that	an	ABR	Borrowing	may
	
be	in	an	aggregate	amount	that	is	equal	to	the	entire	unused	balance	of	the	total	Commitments.		At	the	time	that	each	SONIA
	
Borrowing	is	made,	such	Borrowing	shall	be	in	an	aggregate	amount	that	is	an	integral	multiple	of	£1,000,000	and	not	less	than
	
£10,000,000.		Borrowings	of	more	than	one	Type	may	be	outstanding	at	the	same	time;	
provided
	that	there	shall	not	at	any	time	be
	
more	than	a	total	of	10	Borrowings.
(d)	
Notwithstanding	any	other	provision	of	this	Agreement,	the	Borrower	shall	not	be	entitled	to	request,	or	to
	
elect	to	convert	or	continue,	any	Borrowing	if	the	Interest	Period	requested	with	respect	thereto	would	end	after	the	Maturity	Date.
	
(e)	
The	Borrower	may	from	time	to	time	elect	to	increase	the	Commitments	of	the	Facility	in	a	minimum	amount
	
of	$25,000,000	in	respect	of	the	Facility	so	long	as,	after	giving	effect	thereto,	the	aggregate	amount	of	the	Commitments	of	the
	
Facility	does	not	exceed	$7,000,000,000.		The	Borrower	may	arrange	for	any	such	increase	to	be	provided	by	one	or	more	Lenders
	
with	a	Commitment	in	the	Facility	(each	Lender	so	agreeing	to	an	increase	in	its	Commitment,	an	“
Increasing	Lender
”;	it	being
	
understood	and	agreed	that	each	Lender	of	the	Facility	approached	to	provide	any	such	increase	shall	have	the	right,	but	not	the
	
obligation,	to	provide	such	increase),	or	by	one	or	more	banks,	financial	institutions	or	other	entities	(each	such	bank,	financial
	
institution	or	other	entity,	an	“
Augmenting	Lender
”),	to	increase	their	existing	Commitments	in	respect	of	the	Facility,	or	extend
	
Commitments	in	respect	of	the	Facility,	as	the	case	may	be;	
provided
	that	(i)	each	Augmenting	Lender,	shall	be	subject	to	the
	
approval	of	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent	(not	to	be	unreasonably	withheld	or	delayed)	and	(ii)	(x)	in	the	case	of	an
	
Increasing	Lender,	the	Borrower	and	such	Increasing	Lender	execute	an	agreement	substantially	in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	C
	hereto
	
and	(y)	in	the	case	of	an	Augmenting	Lender,	the	Borrower	and	such	Augmenting	Lender	execute	an	agreement	substantially	in	the
	
form	of	
Exhibit	D
	hereto.		Increases	and	new	Commitments	created	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(e)
	shall	become	effective	on	the
	
date	agreed	by	the	Borrower,	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	relevant	Lenders	with	a	Commitment	in	the	Facility	and	the
	
Administrative	Agent	shall	notify	each	affected	Lender	thereof;	
provided
	that	no	increase	in	the	Commitments	created	pursuant	to
	
this	
paragraph	(e)
	shall	become	effective	less	than	three	(3)	Business	Days	prior	to	the	Maturity	Date.		Notwithstanding	the
	
foregoing,	no	increase	in	the	Commitments	(or	in	the	Commitment	of	any	Lender),	shall	become	effective	under	this	
paragraph	(e)
	
unless,	(i)	on	the	proposed	date	of	the	effectiveness	of	such	increase,	the	conditions	set	forth	in	
Sections	4.02(a)
	and	
(b)
	shall	be
	
satisfied	or	waived	by	the	Required	Lenders	with	a	Commitment	in	the	Facility	and	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	a
	
certificate	to	that	effect	dated	such	date	and	executed	by	an	Authorized	Officer	of	the	Borrower	and	(ii)	the	Administrative	Agent
	
shall	have	received
	
38
	documents	consistent	with	those	delivered	on	the	Effective	Date	under	
Section	4.01
	as	to	the	corporate	power	and	authority	of	the
	
Borrower	to	borrow	hereunder	after	giving	effect	to	such	increase.		On	the	effective	date	of	any	increase	in	the	Commitments	of	the
	
Facility,	(i)	each	relevant	Increasing	Lender	with	a	Commitment	in	the	Facility	and	Augmenting	Lender	with	a	Commitment	in	the
	
Facility	shall	make	available	to	the	Administrative	Agent	such	amounts	in	immediately	available	funds	as	the	Administrative	Agent
	
shall	determine,	for	the	benefit	of	the	other	relevant	Lenders	in	the	Facility,	as	being	required	in	order	to	cause,	after	giving	effect
	
to	such	increase	and	the	use	of	such	amounts	to	make	payments	to	such	other	relevant	Lenders	in	the	Facility,	each	Lender’s
	
portion	of	the	outstanding	Loans	under	the	Facility	of	all	the	Lenders	with	Commitments	in	the	Facility	to	equal	its	Applicable
	
Percentage	of	such	outstanding	Loans	under	the	Facility,	(ii)	the	Lenders	shall	purchase	and	assume	(without	recourse	or	warranty)
	
from	the	Lenders	undivided	participation	interests	in	any	outstanding	LC	Exposure	to	the	extent	necessary	to	ensure	that	after
	
giving	effect	to	any	such	increase	in	the	Commitments	of	the	Facility,	each	Lender	has	outstanding	Loans	and	participation
	
interests	in	outstanding	LC	Exposure	equal	to	its	Applicable	Percentage	and	(iii)	the	Borrower	shall	be	deemed	to	have	repaid	and
	
re-borrowed	all	outstanding	Loans	of	the	Facility	as	of	the	date	of	any	increase	in	the	Commitments	of	the	Facility	(with	such	re-
borrowing	to	consist	of	the	Types	of	Loans,	with	related	Interest	Periods	if	applicable,	specified	in	a	notice	delivered	by	the
	
Borrower	in	accordance	with	the	requirements	of	
Section	2.03
).		The	deemed	payments	made	pursuant	to	
clause	(iii)
	of	the
	
immediately	preceding	sentence	in	respect	of	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan	or	SONIA	Loan	shall	be	subject	to	indemnification	by	the
	
Borrower	pursuant	to	the	provisions	of	
Section	2.15
	if	the	deemed	payment	occurs	other	than	on	the	last	day	of	the	related	Interest
	
Periods.
		
SECTION	2.03.		
Requests	for	Borrowings
.		To	request	a	Borrowing,	the	Borrower	shall	notify	the	Administrative
	
Agent	of	such	request	by	telephone	(a)	in	the	case	of	an	ABR	Borrowing,	not	later	than	11:00	a.m.,	New	York	City	time,	on	the
	
Business	Day	of	the	proposed	ABR	Borrowing,	(b)	in	the	case	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Dollars,	not	later
	
than	1:00	p.m.,	New	York	City	time,	three	(3)	Business	Days	before	the	date	of	the	proposed	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	(c)	in	the
	
case	of	a	SONIA	Borrowing,	not	later	than	1:00	p.m.,	London	time,	five	(5)	Business	Days	before	the	date	of	the	proposed	SONIA
	
Borrowing	and	(d)	in	the	case	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Euros,	not	later	than	1:00	p.m.,	London	time,	three
	
(3)	Business	Days	before	the	date	of	the	proposed	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing.		Each	such	telephonic	Borrowing	Request	shall	be
	
irrevocable	and	shall	be	confirmed	promptly	by	hand	delivery	or	facsimile	(or	in	any	other	manner	approved	pursuant	to	
Section
	
9.01(b)
)	to	the	Administrative	Agent	in	the	Funding	Office	of	a	written	Borrowing	Request	in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	E
	hereto	(except	as
	
otherwise	agreed	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower)	signed	by	the	Borrower.		Each	such	telephonic	and	written
	
Borrowing	Request	shall	specify	the	following	information	in	compliance	with	
Section	2.02
:
(i)	the	aggregate	amount	of	the	requested	Borrowing;
(ii)	
the	date	of	such	Borrowing,	which	shall	be	a	Business	Day;
(iii)	
the	Agreed	Currency	of	the	requested	Borrowing;
(iv)	
whether	such	Borrowing	is	to	be	an	ABR	Borrowing,	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	or	a	SONIA	Borrowing;
(v)	
in	the	case	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	the	initial	Interest	Period	to	be	applicable	thereto,	which	shall	be
	
a	period	contemplated	by	the	definition	of	the	term	“Interest	Period”;	and
	
(vi)	
the	location	and	number	of	the	Borrower’s	account	to	which	funds	are	to	be	disbursed,	which	shall	comply	with
	
the	requirements	of	
Section	2.06
.
39
	If	no	election	as	to	the	Type	of	any	Borrowing	denominated	in	Dollars	in	the	Funding	Office	is	specified,	then	the	requested
	
Borrowing	shall	be	an	ABR	Borrowing.		If	no	Interest	Period	is	specified	with	respect	to	any	requested	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,
	
then	the	Borrower	shall	be	deemed	to	have	selected	an	Interest	Period	of	one	month’s	duration.		Promptly	following	receipt	of	a
	
Borrowing	Request	in	accordance	with	this	
Section	2.03
,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	advise	each	Lender	of	the	details	thereof
	
and	of	the	amount	of	such	Lender’s	Loan	to	be	made	as	part	of	the	requested	Borrowing.
		
SECTION	2.04.		
Letters	of	Credit.
		
(a)	
General
.		Subject	to	the	terms	and	conditions	set	forth	herein,	the	Borrower	may	request	the	issuance	of
	
Letters	of	Credit	denominated	in	Dollars	as	the	applicant	thereof	for	the	support	of	its	or	its	Subsidiaries’	obligations,	in	a	form
	
reasonably	acceptable	to	the	Administrative	Agent	and	each	relevant	Issuing	Bank,	at	any	time	and	from	time	to	time	during	the
	
Availability	Period.		In	the	event	of	any	inconsistency	between	the	terms	and	conditions	of	this	Agreement	and	the	terms	and
	
conditions	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	Agreement,	the	terms	and	conditions	of	this	Agreement	shall	control.	Notwithstanding	anything
	
herein	to	the	contrary,	no	Issuing	Bank	shall	have	any	obligation	hereunder	to	issue,	and	shall	not	issue,	any	Letter	of	Credit	the
	
proceeds	of	which	would	be	made	available	to	any	Person	(i)	to	fund	any	activity	or	business	of	or	with	any	Sanctioned	Person,	or	in
	
any	Sanctioned	Country,	(ii)	in	any	manner	that	would	result	in	a	violation	of	any	Sanctions	by	any	party	to	this	Agreement	or	(iii)	in
	
any	manner	that	would	result	in	a	violation	of	one	or	more	policies	of	such	Issuing	Bank	applicable	to	letters	of	credit	generally.	An
	
Issuing	Bank	shall	be	under	no	obligation	to	issue	any	Letter	of	Credit	if	any	order,	judgment	or	decree	of	any	Governmental
	
Authority	or	arbitrator	shall	by	its	terms	purport	to	enjoin	or	restrain	such	Issuing	Bank	from	issuing	such	Letter	of	Credit,	or	any
	
law	applicable	to	such	Issuing	Bank	or	any	directive	(whether	or	not	having	the	force	of	law)	from	any	Governmental	Authority	with
	
jurisdiction	over	such	Issuing	Bank	shall	prohibit,	or	direct	that	such	Issuing	Bank	refrain	from,	the	issuance	of	letters	of	credit
	
generally	or	such	Letter	of	Credit	in	particular	or	shall	impose	upon	such	Issuing	Bank	with	respect	to	such	Letter	of	Credit	any
	
restriction,	reserve	or	capital	requirement	(for	which	such	Issuing	Bank	is	not	otherwise	compensated	hereunder)	not	in	effect	on
	
the	Effective	Date,	or	shall	impose	upon	such	Issuing	Bank	any	unreimbursed	loss,	cost	or	expense	which	was	not	applicable	on	the
	
Effective	Date	(for	which	such	Issuing	Bank	is	not	otherwise	compensated	hereunder).	No	Issuing	Bank	shall	have	any	obligation
	
hereunder	to	issue	any	Letter	of	Credit	other	than	a	standby	Letter	of	Credit,	unless	such	Issuing	Bank	shall	so	agree.
(b)	
Notice	of	Issuance,	Amendment,	Renewal,	Extension;	Certain	Conditions
.		To	request	the	issuance	of	a	Letter
	
of	Credit	(or	the	amendment,	renewal	or	extension	of	an	outstanding	Letter	of	Credit),	the	Borrower	shall	hand	deliver	or	telecopy
	
(or	transmit	by	electronic	communication,	if	arrangements	for	doing	so	have	been	approved	by	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank)	to	any
	
Issuing	Bank	and	the	Administrative	Agent	(reasonably	in	advance	of	the	requested	date	of	issuance,	amendment,	renewal	or
	
extension,	but	in	any	event	no	less	than	three	(3)	Business	Days)	a	notice	requesting	the	issuance	of	a	Letter	of	Credit,	or
	
identifying	the	Letter	of	Credit	to	be	amended,	renewed	or	extended,	and	specifying	(A)	the	date	of	issuance,	amendment,	renewal
	
or	extension	(which	shall	be	a	Business	Day),	(B)	the	date	on	which	such	Letter	of	Credit	is	to	expire	(which	shall	comply	with
	
Section	2.04(c)
),	(C)	the	Stated	Amount	of	such	Letter	of	Credit,	(D)	the	Borrower	as	the	account	party	and,	if	desired	by	the
	
Borrower,	one	or	more	Subsidiaries	as	additional	account	parties	and	(E)	the	name	and	address	of	the	beneficiary	thereof	and	such
	
other	information	as	shall	be	necessary	to	prepare,	amend,	renew	or	extend	such	Letter	of	Credit.		In	addition,	as	a	condition	to	any
	
such	Letter	of	Credit	issuance,	the	Borrower	shall	have	entered	into	a	continuing	agreement	(or	other	letter	of	credit	agreement)
	
for	the	issuance	of	letters	of	credit	and/or	shall	submit	a	letter	of	credit	application,	in	each	case,	as	required	by	the	applicable
	
Issuing	Bank	and	using	such	bank’s	standard	form	(each,	a	“
Letter	of	Credit	Agreement
”).		A	Letter	of	Credit	shall	be	issued,
	
amended,	renewed	or	extended	only	if	(and	upon	issuance,	amendment,	renewal	or	extension	of	each	Letter	of	Credit	the	Borrower
	
shall	be	deemed	to	represent	and	warrant	that),	after
	
40
	giving	effect	to	such	issuance,	amendment,	renewal	or	extension	(i)	(x)	the	aggregate	undrawn	amount	of	all	outstanding	Letters	of
	
Credit	issued	by	an	Issuing	Bank	at	such	time,	
plus
	(y)	the	aggregate	amount	of	all	LC	Disbursements	made	by	such	Issuing	Bank
	
that	have	not	yet	been	reimbursed	by	or	on	behalf	of	the	Borrower	at	such	time	shall	not	exceed	its	Letter	of	Credit	Commitment,
	
(ii)	the	LC	Exposure	shall	not	exceed	the	total	Letter	of	Credit	Commitments,	(iii)	no	Lender’s	Credit	Exposure	shall	exceed	its
	
Commitment	and	(iv)	the	Total	Credit	Exposure	shall	not	exceed	the	total	Commitments.		The	Borrower	may,	at	any	time	and	from
	
time	to	time,	reduce	the	Letter	of	Credit	Commitment	of	any	Issuing	Bank	with	the	consent	of	such	Issuing	Bank;	
provided
	that	the
	
Borrower	shall	not	reduce	the	Letter	of	Credit	Commitment	of	any	Issuing	Bank	if,	after	giving	effect	of	such	reduction,	the
	
conditions	set	forth	in	
clauses	(i)
	through	
(iv)
	above	shall	not	be	satisfied.
(c)	
Expiration	Date
.		Each	Letter	of	Credit	shall	expire	(or	be	subject	to	termination	by	notice	from	an	Issuing
	
Bank	to	the	beneficiary	thereof)	at	or	prior	to	the	close	of	business	on	the	earlier	of	(i)	the	date	one	(1)	year	after	the	date	of	the
	
issuance	of	such	Letter	of	Credit	(or,	in	the	case	of	any	renewal	or	extension	thereof,	one	year	after	the	then-current	expiration	date
	
at	the	time	of	such	renewal	or	extension)	and	(ii)	the	date	that	is	five	(5)	Business	Days	prior	to	the	Maturity	Date;	
provided
	that
	
any	Letter	of	Credit	with	a	one-year	tenor	may	provide	for	the	renewal	thereof	for	additional	one-year	periods	(which	shall	in	no
	
event	extend	beyond	the	date	referred	to	in	
clause	(ii)
).
(d)	
Participations
.		By	the	issuance	of	a	Letter	of	Credit	(or	an	amendment	to	a	Letter	of	Credit	increasing	the
	
amount	thereof)	and	without	any	further	action	on	the	part	of	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	or	the	Lenders,	such	Issuing	Bank	hereby
	
grants	to	each	Lender,	and	each	Lender	hereby	acquires	from	such	Issuing	Bank,	a	participation	in	such	Letter	of	Credit	equal	to
	
such	Lender’s	Applicable	Percentage	of	the	aggregate	amount	available	to	be	drawn	under	such	Letter	of	Credit.		In	consideration
	
and	in	furtherance	of	the	foregoing,	each	Lender	hereby	absolutely	and	unconditionally	agrees	to	pay	to	the	Administrative	Agent,
	
for	the	account	of	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank,	such	Lender’s	Applicable	Percentage	of	each	LC	Disbursement	made	by	such	Issuing
	
Bank	and	not	reimbursed	by	the	Borrower	on	the	date	due	as	provided	in	
Section	2.04(e)
,	or	of	any	reimbursement	payment
	
required	to	be	refunded	to	the	Borrower	for	any	reason.		Each	Lender	acknowledges	and	agrees	that	its	obligation	to	acquire
	
participations	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(d)
	in	respect	of	Letters	of	Credit	is	absolute	and	unconditional	and	shall	not	be	affected
	
by	any	circumstance	whatsoever,	including	any	amendment,	renewal	or	extension	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	or	the	occurrence	and
	
continuance	of	a	Default	or	reduction	or	termination	of	the	Commitments,	and	that	each	such	payment	shall	be	made	without	any
	
offset,	abatement,	withholding	or	reduction	whatsoever.
(e)	
Reimbursement
.		If	an	Issuing	Bank	shall	make	any	LC	Disbursement	in	respect	of	a	Letter	of	Credit,	the
	
Borrower	shall	reimburse	such	LC	Disbursement	by	paying	to	the	Administrative	Agent	in	Dollars	such	LC	Disbursement,	calculated
	
as	of	the	date	the	Issuing	Bank	made	such	LC	Disbursement	not	later	than	12:00	noon,	New	York	City	time,	on	the	first	(1
st
)
	
Business	Day	immediately	following	the	date	that	such	LC	Disbursement	is	made;	
provided
	that,	if	such	LC	Disbursement	is	not	less
	
than	$1,000,000,	the	Borrower	may,	subject	to	the	conditions	to	borrowing	set	forth	herein,	request	in	accordance	with	
Section
	
2.03
	that	such	payment	be	financed	with	a	Dollar	denominated	ABR	Loan	on	the	date	on	which	such	drawing	is	honored	and	in	an
	
amount	equal	to	the	amount	of	such	drawing	and,	to	the	extent	so	financed,	the	Borrower’s	obligation	to	make	such	payment	shall
	
be	discharged	and	replaced	by	the	resulting	ABR	Borrowing.		If	the	Borrower	fails	to	make	such	payment	when	due,	the
	
Administrative	Agent	shall	notify	each	Lender	of	the	applicable	LC	Disbursement,	the	payment	then	due	from	the	Borrower	in
	
respect	thereof	and	such	Lender’s	Applicable	Percentage	thereof.		Promptly	following	receipt	of	such	notice,	each	Lender	shall	pay
	
to	the	Administrative	Agent	its	Applicable	Percentage	of	the	payment	then	due	from	the	Borrower,	in	the	same	manner	as	provided
	
in	
Section	2.06
	with	respect	to	Loans	made	by	such	Lender	(and	
Section	2.06
	shall	apply,	
mutatis	mutandis
,	to	the	payment
	
obligations	of	the	Lenders),	and	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	promptly	pay	to	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	the
	
41
	amounts	so	received	by	it	from	the	Lenders.		Promptly	following	receipt	by	the	Administrative	Agent	of	any	payment	from	the
	
Borrower	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(e)
,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	distribute	such	payment	to	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	or,
	
to	the	extent	that	Lenders	have	made	payments	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(e)
	to	reimburse	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank,	then	to
	
such	Lenders	and	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	as	their	interests	may	appear.		Any	payment	made	by	a	Lender	pursuant	to	this
	
paragraph	(e)
	to	reimburse	an	Issuing	Bank	for	any	LC	Disbursement	(other	than	the	funding	of	ABR	Loans	as	contemplated	above)
	
shall	not	constitute	a	Loan	and	shall	not	relieve	the	Borrower	of	its	obligation	to	reimburse	such	LC	Disbursement.
	
(f)	
Obligations	Absolute
.		The	Borrower’s	obligation	to	reimburse	LC	Disbursements	as	provided	in	
Section
	
2.04(e)
	shall	be	absolute,	unconditional	and	irrevocable,	and	shall	be	performed	strictly	in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	this
	
Agreement	under	any	and	all	circumstances	whatsoever	and	irrespective	of	(i)	any	lack	of	validity	or	enforceability	of	any	Letter	of
	
Credit,	any	Letter	of	Credit	Agreement	or	this	Agreement,	or	any	term	or	provision	therein,	(ii)	any	draft	or	other	document
	
presented	under	a	Letter	of	Credit	proving	to	be	forged,	fraudulent	or	invalid	in	any	respect	or	any	statement	therein	being	untrue
	
or	inaccurate	in	any	respect,	(iii)	payment	by	an	Issuing	Bank	under	a	Letter	of	Credit	against	presentation	of	a	draft	or	other
	
document	that	does	not	comply	with	the	terms	of	such	Letter	of	Credit	or	(iv)	any	other	event	or	circumstance	whatsoever,	whether
	
or	not	similar	to	any	of	the	foregoing,	that	might,	but	for	the	provisions	of	this	
Section	2.04
,	constitute	a	legal	or	equitable
	
discharge	of,	or	provide	a	right	of	setoff	against,	the	Borrower’s	obligations	hereunder.		Neither	the	Administrative	Agent,	the
	
Lenders	nor	the	Issuing	Banks,	nor	any	of	their	Related	Parties,	shall	have	any	liability	or	responsibility	by	reason	of	or	in
	
connection	with	the	issuance	or	transfer	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	or	any	payment	or	failure	to	make	any	payment	thereunder
	
(irrespective	of	any	of	the	circumstances	referred	to	in	the	preceding	sentence),	or	any	error,	omission,	interruption,	loss	or	delay
	
in	transmission	or	delivery	of	any	draft,	notice	or	other	communication	under	or	relating	to	any	Letter	of	Credit	(including	any
	
document	required	to	make	a	drawing	thereunder),	any	error	in	interpretation	of	technical	terms	or	any	consequence	arising	from
	
causes	beyond	the	control	of	the	Issuing	Banks.		The	parties	hereto	expressly	agree	that,	in	the	absence	of	gross	negligence	or
	
willful	misconduct	on	the	part	of	an	Issuing	Bank	(as	finally	determined	by	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	in	a	final	non-
appealable	ruling),	such	Issuing	Bank	shall	be	deemed	to	have	exercised	care	in	each	such	determination.		In	furtherance	of	the
	
foregoing	and	without	limiting	the	generality	thereof,	the	parties	agree	that,	with	respect	to	documents	presented	which	appear	on
	
their	face	to	be	in	substantial	compliance	with	the	terms	of	a	Letter	of	Credit,	each	Issuing	Bank	may,	in	its	sole	discretion,	either
	
accept	and	make	payment	upon	such	documents	without	responsibility	for	further	investigation,	regardless	of	any	notice	or
	
information	to	the	contrary,	or	refuse	to	accept	and	make	payment	upon	such	documents	if	such	documents	are	not	in	strict
	
compliance	with	the	terms	of	such	Letter	of	Credit.
(g)	
Disbursement	Procedures
.		Each	Issuing	Bank	shall,	within	the	period	stipulated	by	terms	and	conditions	of
	
the	applicable	Letter	of	Credit,	examine	all	documents	purporting	to	represent	a	demand	for	payment	under	such	Letter	of	Credit.
		
The	applicable	Issuing	Bank	shall	promptly	notify	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower	by	telecopy	or	electronic	mail	of	such
	
demand	for	payment	and	whether	such	Issuing	Bank	has	made	or	will	make	an	LC	Disbursement	thereunder;	
provided
	that	any
	
failure	to	give	or	delay	in	giving	such	notice	shall	not	relieve	the	Borrower	of	its	obligation	to	reimburse	such	Issuing	Bank	and	the
	
Lenders	with	respect	to	any	such	LC	Disbursement.
(h)	
Interim	Interest
.		If	an	Issuing	Bank	shall	make	any	LC	Disbursement,	then,	unless	the	Borrower	shall
	
reimburse	such	LC	Disbursement	in	full	on	the	date	such	LC	Disbursement	is	made,	the	unpaid	amount	thereof	shall	bear	interest,
	
for	each	day	from	and	including	the	date	such	LC	Disbursement	is	made	to	but	excluding	the	date	that	the	reimbursement	is	due
	
and	payable	at	the	rate	
per	annum
	then	applicable	to	ABR	Loans;	
provided
	that,	if	the	Borrower	fails	to	reimburse	such	LC
	
Disbursement	when	due	pursuant	to	
Section	2.04(e)
,	then	
Section	2.12(e)
	shall	apply.		Interest	accrued
	
42
	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(h)
	shall	be	for	the	account	of	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank,	except	that	interest	accrued	on	and	after	the
	
date	of	payment	by	any	Lender	pursuant	to	
Section	2.04(e)
	to	reimburse	such	Issuing	Bank	shall	be	for	the	account	of	such	Lender
	
to	the	extent	of	such	payment.
(i)	
Replacement	of	the	Issuing	Bank
.		(i)	An	Issuing	Bank	may	be	replaced	at	any	time	by	written	agreement
	
among	the	Borrower,	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	replaced	Issuing	Bank	and	the	successor	Issuing	Bank.		The	Administrative
	
Agent	shall	notify	the	Lenders	of	any	such	replacement	of	an	Issuing	Bank.		At	the	time	any	such	replacement	shall	become
	
effective,	the	Borrower	shall	pay	all	unpaid	fees	accrued	for	the	account	of	the	replaced	Issuing	Bank	pursuant	to	
Section	2.11(b)
.
		
From	and	after	the	effective	date	of	any	such	replacement,	(x)	the	successor	Issuing	Bank	shall	have	all	the	rights	and	obligations	of
	
Issuing	Banks	under	this	Agreement	with	respect	to	Letters	of	Credit	to	be	issued	thereafter	and	(y)	references	herein	to	the	term
	
“Issuing	Bank”	shall	be	deemed	to	refer	to	such	successor	or	to	any	previous	Issuing	Banks,	or	to	such	successor	and	all	previous
	
Issuing	Banks,	as	the	context	shall	require.		After	the	replacement	of	an	Issuing	Bank	hereunder,	the	replaced	Issuing	Bank	shall
	
remain	a	party	hereto	and	shall	continue	to	have	all	the	rights	and	obligations	of	an	Issuing	Bank	under	this	Agreement	with
	
respect	to	Letters	of	Credit	issued	by	it	prior	to	such	replacement,	but	shall	not	be	required	to	issue	additional	Letters	of	Credit.
(ii)	Subject	to	the	appointment	and	acceptance	of	a	successor	Issuing	Bank,	any	Issuing	Bank	may	resign	as	an
	
Issuing	Bank	at	any	time	upon	thirty	(30)	days’	prior	written	notice	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	Borrower	and	the
	
Lenders,	in	which	case,	such	Issuing	Bank	shall	be	replaced	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.06(i)
	above.
(j)	
Cash	Collateralization
.		If	any	Event	of	Default	shall	occur	and	be	continuing,	on	the	Business	Day	that	the
	
Borrower	receives	notice	from	the	Administrative	Agent	or	the	Required	Lenders	(or,	if	the	maturity	of	the	Loans	has	been
	
accelerated,	Lenders	with	LC	Exposure	representing	greater	than	50%	of	the	total	LC	Exposure)	demanding	the	deposit	of	cash
	
collateral	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(j)
,	the	Borrower	shall	deposit	in	an	account	with	the	Administrative	Agent,	in	the	name	of	the
	
Administrative	Agent	and	for	the	benefit	of	the	Lenders,	an	amount	in	cash	equal	to	the	LC	Exposure	as	of	such	date,	
plus
	any
	
accrued	and	unpaid	interest	thereon;	
provided
	that	the	obligation	to	deposit	such	cash	collateral	shall	become	effective
	
immediately,	and	such	deposit	shall	become	immediately	due	and	payable,	without	demand	or	other	notice	of	any	kind,	upon	the
	
occurrence	of	any	Event	of	Default	with	respect	to	the	Borrower	described	in	
Section	7.01(h)
	or	
(i)
.		Such	deposit	shall	be	held	by
	
the	Administrative	Agent	as	collateral	for	the	payment	and	performance	of	the	obligations	of	the	Borrower	under	this	Agreement.
		
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	exclusive	dominion	and	control,	including	the	exclusive	right	of	withdrawal,	over	such	account.
		
Other	than	any	interest	earned	on	the	investment	of	such	deposits,	which	investments	shall	be	made	at	the	option	and	sole
	
discretion	of	the	Administrative	Agent	and	at	the	Borrower’s	risk	and	expense,	such	deposits	shall	not	bear	interest.		Interest	or
	
profits,	if	any,	on	such	investments	shall	accumulate	in	such	account.		Moneys	in	such	account	shall	be	applied	by	the
	
Administrative	Agent	to	reimburse	any	Issuing	Bank	for	LC	Disbursements	for	which	it	has	not	been	reimbursed	and,	to	the	extent
	
not	so	applied,	shall	be	held	for	the	satisfaction	of	the	reimbursement	obligations	of	the	Borrower	for	the	LC	Exposure	at	such	time
	
or,	if	the	maturity	of	the	Loans	has	been	accelerated	(but	subject	to	the	consent	of	Lenders	with	LC	Exposure	representing	greater
	
than	50%	of	the	total	LC	Exposure),	be	applied	to	satisfy	other	Obligations.		If	the	Borrower	is	required	to	provide	an	amount	of
	
cash	collateral	hereunder	as	a	result	of	the	occurrence	of	an	Event	of	Default,	such	amount	(to	the	extent	not	applied	as	aforesaid)
	
shall	be	returned	to	the	Borrower	within	three	(3)	Business	Days	after	all	Events	of	Default	have	been	cured	or	waived.
(k)	
Letters	of	Credit	Issued	for	Account	of	Subsidiaries
.		Notwithstanding	that	a	Letter	of	Credit	issued	or
	
outstanding	hereunder	supports	any	obligations	of,	or	is	for	the	account	of,	a	Subsidiary,	or	states	that	a	Subsidiary	is	the	“account
	
party,”	“applicant,”	“customer,”	“instructing	party,”
	
43
	or	the	like	of	or	for	such	Letter	of	Credit,	and	without	derogating	from	any	rights	of	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	(whether	arising	by
	
contract,	at	law,	in	equity	or	otherwise)	against	such	Subsidiary	in	respect	of	such	Letter	of	Credit,	the	Borrower	(i)	shall
	
reimburse,	indemnify	and	compensate	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	hereunder	for	such	Letter	of	Credit	(including	to	reimburse	any
	
and	all	drawings	thereunder)	as	if	such	Letter	of	Credit	had	been	issued	solely	for	the	account	of	the	Borrower	and	(ii)	irrevocably
	
waives	any	and	all	defenses	that	might	otherwise	be	available	to	it	as	a	guarantor	or	surety	of	any	or	all	of	the	obligations	of	such
	
Subsidiary	in	respect	of	such	Letter	of	Credit.		The	Borrower	hereby	acknowledges	that	the	issuance	of	such	Letters	of	Credit	for	its
	
Subsidiaries	inures	to	the	benefit	of	the	Borrower,	and	that	the	Borrower’s	business	derives	substantial	benefits	from	the
	
businesses	of	such	Subsidiaries.
(l)	
Stated	Amount
.		The	Stated	Amount	of	each	Letter	of	Credit	shall	not	be	less	than	Ten	Thousand	Dollars
	
($10,000)	or	such	lesser	amount	as	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	has	agreed	to.
SECTION	2.05.		
Maturity	Date	Extension
.
(a)	
Requests	for	Extension
.		The	Borrower	may,	by	notice,	in	writing,	to	the	Administrative	Agent	(which	shall
	
promptly	notify	the	Lenders)	during	the	90-day	period	prior	to	each	anniversary	of	the	Effective	Date,	request	that	each	Lender
	
extend	such	Lender’s	Maturity	Date	for	an	additional	year	from	the	Maturity	Date	then	in	effect	hereunder	(such	date,	the	“
Existing
	
Maturity	Date
”,	and	such	request,	an	“
Extension	Request
”);	
provided
	that	(1)	no	more	than	one	Extension	Request	may	be	made
	
during	any	twelve-month	period	and	(2)	no	more	than	two	Extension	Requests	may	be	made	after	the	Effective	Date.
(b)	
Lender	Elections	to	Extend
.		Each	Lender,	in	its	sole	discretion,	shall	advise	the	Administrative	Agent
	
whether	or	not	such	Lender	agrees	to	such	extension.		If	a	Lender	agrees	to	such	extension	(an	“
Extending	Lender
”),	it	shall	notify
	
the	Administrative	Agent,	in	writing,	of	its	decision	to	do	so	not	more	than	twenty	(20)	days	after	the	date	of	such	Extension
	
Request.		A	Lender	that	determines	not	to	so	extend	its	Commitment	shall	so	notify	the	Administrative	Agent	promptly	after	making
	
such	determination	and	is	herein	called	a	“
Non-Extending	Lender
”.		If	a	Lender	does	not	give	timely	notice	to	the	Administrative
	
Agent	of	whether	or	not	such	Lender	agrees	to	such	extension,	it	shall	be	deemed	to	be	a	Non-Extending	Lender;	
provided
	that	any
	
Non-Extending	Lender	may,	with	the	consent	of	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent	(such	consent	of	the	Administrative
	
Agent	not	to	be	unreasonably	withheld,	conditioned	or	delayed),	subsequently	become	an	Extending	Lender	by	notice	to	the
	
Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower.
(c)	
Notification	by	Administrative	Agent
.		The	Administrative	Agent	shall	notify	the	Borrower	promptly	of	each
	
Lender’s	determination	after	the	deadline	set	forth	for	Lender	elections	in	
Section	2.05(b)
.
(d)	
Additional	Commitment	Lenders
.		If	(and	only	if)	the	total	of	the	Commitments	of	the	Lenders	that	have
	
agreed	so	to	extend	their	Maturity	Date	shall	be	more	than	50%	of	the	aggregate	amount	of	the	Commitments	in	effect	immediately
	
prior	to	the	date	of	the	Extension	Request,	the	Borrower	shall	have	the	right,	at	its	own	expense,	to	require	any	Non-Extending
	
Lender	to	transfer	and	assign	without	recourse	(in	accordance	with	and	subject	to	the	restrictions	contained	in	
Section	9.04
)	all	its
	
interests,	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement	to	one	or	more	banks	or	other	financial	institutions	identified	to	the	Non-
Extending	Lender,	which	may	include	any	Lender	(each	an	“
Additional	Lender
”);	
provided
	that	(w)	such	Additional	Lender	shall	be
	
subject	to	the	approval	of	each	Issuing	Bank	and,	if	such	Additional	Lender	is	not	already	a	Lender	hereunder,	the	Administrative
	
Agent	(such	approval	not	to	be	unreasonably	withheld);	(x)	such	assignment	shall	become	effective	as	of	the	date	of	the	extension	of
	
the	Maturity	Date	of	the	Extending	Lenders	as	provided	in	
Section	2.05(e)
	or	any	time	thereafter	on	or	prior	to	the	effective
	
Maturity	Date	of	the	applicable	Non-Extending	Lender;	(y)	the
	
44
	Additional	Lender	shall	pay	to	such	Non-Extending	Lender	in	immediately	available	funds	on	the	effective	date	of	such	assignment
	
the	principal	of,	and	interest	accrued	to	the	date	of	payment	on,	the	Loans	made	by	it	hereunder	and	all	other	amounts	accrued	for
	
its	account	or	owed	to	it	hereunder	and	(z)	if	the	assigning	Lender	is	an	Issuing	Bank,	it	shall	have	received	cash	collateral	as
	
required	by	
Section	2.04(j)
	or	it	shall	have	entered	into	other	arrangements	with	the	Borrower	that	are	satisfactory	to	such	Issuing
	
Bank	with	respect	to	any	outstanding	Letters	of	Credit	issued	by	it.		Any	such	assignee’s	initial	Maturity	Date	shall	be	the	Maturity
	
Date	in	effect	for	the	Extending	Lenders	at	the	time	of	such	assignment.	Any	assignee	which	becomes	a	Lender	as	a	result	of	such
	
an	assignment	made	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.05(d)
	shall	be	deemed	to	have	consented	to	the	applicable	Extension	Request	and,
	
therefore,	shall	not	be	a	Non-Extending	Lender.
(e)	
Minimum	Extension	Requirement
.		If	(and	only	if)	the	total	of	the	Commitments	of	the	Lenders	that	have
	
agreed	so	to	extend	their	Maturity	Date	shall	be	more	than	50%	of	the	aggregate	amount	of	the	Commitments	in	effect	immediately
	
prior	to	the	date	of	the	Extension	Request,	then,	upon	the	Borrower’s	election	and	prompt	notification	to	the	Administrative	Agent
	
prior	to	the	relevant	anniversary	of	the	Effective	Date,	subject	to	the	conditions	set	forth	in	
Section	2.05(f)
,	effective	as	of	the
	
relevant	anniversary	of	the	Effective	Date,	the	Maturity	Date	of	each	Extending	Lender	and	of	each	Additional	Lender	shall	be
	
extended	to	the	date	falling	one	year	after	the	Existing	Maturity	Date	(except	that,	if	such	date	is	not	a	Business	Day,	such	Maturity
	
Date	as	so	extended	shall	be	the	immediately	preceding	Business	Day).		In	the	event	of	any	such	extension,	the	Commitment	of	each
	
Non-Extending	Lender	that	has	not	been	replaced	as	provided	in	
Section	2.05(d)
	shall	terminate	on	the	Maturity	Date	in	effect	prior
	
to	any	such	extension	and	the	outstanding	principal	balance	of	all	Loans	and	other	amounts	payable	hereunder	to	such	Non-
Extending	Lender	shall	become	due	and	payable	on	such	Maturity	Date	and	the	total	Commitments	of	the	Lenders	hereunder	shall
	
be	reduced	by	the	Commitments	of	the	Non-Extending	Lenders	so	terminated	on	such	Maturity	Date.
(f)	
Conditions	to	Effectiveness	of	Extensions
.		Notwithstanding	the	foregoing,	the	extension	of	the	Maturity	Date
	
pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.05
	shall	not	be	effective	with	respect	to	any	Lender	unless	(i)	no	Default	or	Event	of	Default	has	occurred
	
and	is	continuing	on	the	date	of	such	extension	and	after	giving	effect	thereto;	and	(ii)	the	representations	and	warranties	of	the
	
Borrower	contained	in	
Article	III	
and	the	other	Loan	Documents	are	true	and	correct	in	all	material	respects	(except	to	the	extent
	
such	representations	and	warranties	are	qualified	by	materiality	in	which	case	such	representations	and	warranties	shall	be	true	in
	
all	respects)	on	and	as	of	the	date	of	the	date	of	such	extension,	except	to	the	extent	that	such	representations	and	warranties
	
specifically	refer	to	an	earlier	date,	in	which	case	they	are	true	and	correct	in	all	material	respects	as	of	such	earlier	date,	and
	
except	that	for	purposes	of	this	
Section	2.05(f)
,	the	representations	and	warranties	contained	in	
Section	3.04(a)
	shall	be	deemed	to
	
refer	to	the	most	recent	statements	furnished	pursuant	to	
clause	(a)
	of	
Section	5.01
.		As	a	condition	precedent	to	each	such
	
extension,	the	Borrower	shall	deliver	to	the	Administrative	Agent	a	certificate	dated	as	of	the	date	of	such	extension	and	signed	by
	
a	Responsible	Officer	of	the	Borrower	certifying	as	to	compliance	with	this	
Section	2.05(f)
.	Notwithstanding	anything	to	the
	
contrary	contained	herein,	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower	shall	be	permitted	to	amend,	modify	or	supplement	any
	
provision	of	this	Agreement	or	any	other	Loan	Document	to	give	effect	to	the	extension	of	the	Maturity	Date	of	the	Extending
	
Lenders	in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	this	
Section	2.05
.
	
(g)	
Effect	of	Maturity	Date	Extensions
.		If	the	Maturity	Date	in	respect	of	any	tranche	of	Commitments	occurs
	
prior	to	the	expiration	of	any	Letter	of	Credit,	then	(i)	if	one	or	more	other	tranches	of	Commitments	in	respect	of	which	the
	
Maturity	Date	shall	not	have	occurred	are	then	in	effect,	(x)	outstanding	Loans	shall	be	repaid	pursuant	to	
Section	2.10
	on	such
	
Maturity	Date	in	an	amount	sufficient	to	permit	the	reallocation	of	the	LC	Exposure	relating	to	the	outstanding	Letters	of	Credit
	
contemplated	by	
clause	(y)
	below	and	(y)	such	Letters	of	Credit	shall	automatically	be	deemed	to	have	been	issued	(including	for
	
purposes	of	the	obligations	of	the	Lenders	to	purchase	participations	therein
	
45
	and	to	make	Loans	and	payments	in	respect	thereof	pursuant	to	
Section	2.04(b)
)	under	(and	ratably	participated	in	by	Lenders
	
pursuant	to)	the	Commitments	in	respect	of	such	non-terminating	tranches	up	to	an	aggregate	amount	not	to	exceed	the	aggregate
	
principal	amount	of	the	unutilized	Commitments	thereunder	at	such	time	(it	being	understood	that	(A)	the	participations	therein	of
	
Lenders	under	the	maturing	tranche	shall	be	correspondingly	released	and	(B)	no	partial	face	amount	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	may
	
be	so	reallocated)	and	(ii)	to	the	extent	not	reallocated	pursuant	to	the	immediately	preceding	
clause	(i)
,	but	without	limiting	the
	
obligations	with	respect	thereto,	the	Borrower	shall	100%	cash	collateralize,	back-stop	with	a	satisfactory	letter	of	credit	issued	by
	
a	financial	institution	satisfactory	to	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	and	the	Administrative	Agent	or	otherwise	collateralize	to	the
	
satisfaction	of	such	Issuing	Bank	and	the	Administrative	Agent	the	then	undrawn	and	unexpired	amount	of	any	such	Letter	of	Credit
	
(without	limiting	the	Borrowers’	obligations	in	respect	of	payments	made	by	an	Issuing	Bank	pursuant	to	a	Letter	of	Credit).
SECTION	2.06.		
Funding	of	Borrowings
.		(a)		Each	Lender	shall	make	each	Loan	to	be	made	by	it	hereunder	on
	
the	proposed	date	thereof	in	the	applicable	currency	by	wire	transfer	of	immediately	available	funds	by	2:00	p.m.,	New	York	City
	
time,	in	respect	of	Loans	made	in	the	Funding	Office,	to	the	account	of	the	Administrative	Agent	most	recently	designated	by	it	for
	
such	purpose	by	notice	to	the	Lenders.		The	Administrative	Agent	will	make	such	Loans	available	to	the	Borrower	by	promptly
	
crediting	the	amounts	so	received,	in	like	funds,	to	an	account	of	the	Borrower	maintained	with	the	Administrative	Agent	in	New
	
York	City	or	to	such	other	account	of	the	Borrower	as	may	be	agreed	by	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent,	in	each	case
	
designated	by	the	Borrower	in	the	applicable	Borrowing	Request;	
provided
	that	ABR	Loans	made	to	finance	the	reimbursement	of
	
an	LC	Disbursement	as	provided	in	
Section	2.04(e)
	shall	be	remitted	by	the	Administrative	Agent	to	the	relevant	Issuing	Bank.
(b)	
Unless	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	notice	from	a	Lender	prior	to	the	proposed	date	of	any
	
Borrowing	that	such	Lender	will	not	make	available	to	the	Administrative	Agent	such	Lender’s	share	of	such	Borrowing,	the
	
Administrative	Agent	may	assume	that	such	Lender	has	made	such	share	available	in	the	applicable	currency	on	such	date	in
	
accordance	with	
Section	2.06(a)
	and	may,	in	reliance	upon	such	assumption,	make	available	to	the	Borrower	a	corresponding
	
amount	in	the	applicable	currency.		In	such	event,	if	a	Lender	has	not	in	fact	made	its	share	of	the	applicable	Borrowing	in	the
	
applicable	currency	available	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	then	the	applicable	Lender	and	the	Borrower	severally	agree	to	pay	to
	
the	Administrative	Agent	forthwith	on	demand	such	corresponding	amount	in	the	applicable	currency	with	interest	thereon,	for
	
each	day	from	and	including	the	date	such	amount	is	made	available	to	the	Borrower	in	the	applicable	currency	to	but	excluding
	
the	date	of	payment	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	at	(i)	in	the	case	of	such	Lender,	the	greater	of	(x)	the	Federal	Funds	Effective
	
Rate	from	time	to	time	in	effect	and	(y)	the	rate	determined	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	accordance	with	banking	industry	rules
	
on	interbank	compensation	(including	the	Overnight	Rate	in	the	case	of	Loans	denominated	in	a	Foreign	Currency)	or	(ii)	in	the
	
case	of	the	Borrower,	the	interest	rate	applicable	at	the	time	to	the	Loans	comprising	such	Borrowing.		If	such	Lender	pays	such
	
amount	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	then	such	amount	shall	constitute	such	Lender’s	Loan	included	in	such	Borrowing.
46
	SECTION	2.07.		
Interest	Elections
.		(a)		Each	Borrowing	initially	shall	be	of	the	Type	specified	in	the	applicable
	
Borrowing	Request	and,	in	the	case	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	shall	have	an	initial	Interest	Period	as	specified	in	such
	
Borrowing	Request	(or	as	otherwise	determined	pursuant	to	the	last	paragraph	of	
Section	2.03
),	as	applicable.		Thereafter,	the
	
Borrower	may	elect	to	convert	such	Borrowing	to	a	different	Type	or	to	continue	such	Borrowing	and,	in	the	case	of	a	Term
	
Benchmark	Borrowing,	may	elect	Interest	Periods	therefor,	as	applicable,	in	each	case	as	provided	in	this	
Section	2.07
.		The
	
Borrower	may	elect	different	options	with	respect	to	different	portions	of	the	affected	Borrowing,	in	which	case	each	such	portion
	
shall	be	allocated	ratably	among	the	Lenders	holding	the	Loans	comprising	such	Borrowing,	and	the	Loans	comprising	each	such
	
portion	shall	be	considered	a	separate	Borrowing.
		
(b)	
To	make	an	election	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.07
,	the	Borrower	shall	notify	the	Administrative	Agent	of	such
	
election	by	telephone	by	the	time	that	a	Borrowing	Request	would	be	required	under	
Section	2.03
	if	the	Borrower	were	requesting
	
a	Borrowing	of	the	Type	resulting	from	such	election	to	be	made	on	the	effective	date	of	such	election.		Each	such	telephonic
	
Interest	Election	Request	shall	be	irrevocable	and	shall	be	confirmed	promptly	by	hand	delivery	or	facsimile	(or	in	any	other
	
manner	approved	pursuant	to	
Section	9.01(b)
)	to	the	Administrative	Agent	of	a	written	Interest	Election	Request	in	the	form	of
	
Exhibit	F
	hereto	(except	as	otherwise	agreed	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower)	signed	by	the	Borrower.
(c)	
Each	telephonic	and	written	Interest	Election	Request	shall	specify	the	following	information	in	compliance
	
with	
Section	2.02
:
(i)	the	Borrowing	to	which	such	Interest	Election	Request	applies	and,	if	different	options	are	being	elected
	
with	respect	to	different	portions	thereof,	the	portions	thereof	to	be	allocated	to	each	resulting	Borrowing	(in	which	case
	
the	information	to	be	specified	pursuant	to	
clauses	(iii)
	and	
(iv)
	below	shall	be	specified	for	each	resulting	Borrowing);
(ii)	the	effective	date	of	the	election	made	pursuant	to	such	Interest	Election	Request,	which	shall	be	a	Business
	
Day;
(iii)	whether	the	resulting	Borrowing	is	to	be	an	ABR	Borrowing,	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	or	a	SONIA
	
Borrowing;	and
(iv)	if	the	resulting	Borrowing	is	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing,	the	Interest	Period	to	be	applicable	thereto	after
	
giving	effect	to	such	election,	which	shall	be	a	period	contemplated	by	the	definition	of	the	term	“Interest	Period.”
If	any	such	Interest	Election	Request	requests	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	but	does	not	specify	an	Interest	Period,	then	the
	
Borrower	shall	be	deemed	to	have	selected	an	Interest	Period	of	one	month’s	duration.
(d)	
Promptly	following	receipt	of	an	Interest	Election	Request	in	respect	of	a	Loan,	the	Administrative	Agent
	
shall	advise	each	Lender	of	the	details	thereof	and	of	such	Lender’s	portion	of	each	resulting	Borrowing.
(e)	
If	the	Borrower	fails	to	deliver	a	timely	Interest	Election	Request	with	respect	to	a	Term	Benchmark
	
Borrowing	prior	to	the	end	of	the	Interest	Period	applicable	thereto,	then	at	the	end	of	such	Interest	Period,	unless	such	Borrowing
	
is	repaid	as	provided	herein,	such	Borrowing	shall	be	automatically	continued	for	an	Interest	Period	of	one	month.	Notwithstanding
	
any	contrary	provision	hereof,	if	an	Event	of	Default	has	occurred	and	is	continuing	and	the	Administrative	Agent,	at	the	request
	
47
	of	the	Required	Lenders,	so	notifies	the	Borrower,	then,	so	long	as	an	Event	of	Default	is	continuing	(i)	no	outstanding	Borrowing
	
may	be	converted	to	or	continued	as	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	and	(ii)	unless	repaid,	each	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing
	
denominated	in	Dollars	shall	be	converted	to	an	ABR	Borrowing	at	the	end	of	the	Interest	Period	applicable	thereto.
SECTION	2.08.		
Termination	and	Reduction	of	Commitments
.		(a)		Unless	previously	terminated,	the
	
Commitments	shall	terminate	on	the	Maturity	Date.
		
(b)	
The	Borrower	may	at	any	time	terminate,	or	from	time	to	time	reduce,	the	Commitments	under	the	Facility;
	
provided
	that	(i)	each	reduction	of	the	Commitments	shall	be	in	an	amount	that	is	an	integral	multiple	of	$1,000,000	and	not	less
	
than	$10,000,000	and	(ii)	the	Borrower	shall	not	terminate	or	reduce	the	Commitments	if,	after	giving	effect	to	any	concurrent
	
prepayment	of	Loans	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.10
,	(A)	any	Lender’s	Credit	Exposure	would	exceed	its	Commitment	or	(B)	the
	
Total	Credit	Exposure	would	exceed	the	total	Commitments.
(c)	
The	Borrower	shall	notify	the	Administrative	Agent	of	any	election	to	terminate	or	reduce	the	Commitments
	
under	
Section	2.08(b)
	at	least	three	(3)	Business	Days	prior	to	the	effective	date	of	such	termination	or	reduction,	specifying	such
	
election	and	the	effective	date	thereof.		Promptly	following	receipt	of	any	such	notice,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	advise	the
	
applicable	Lenders	of	the	contents	thereof.		Each	notice	delivered	by	the	Borrower	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.08
	shall	be
	
irrevocable;	
provided
	that	a	notice	of	termination	of	the	Commitments	delivered	by	the	Borrower	may	state	that	such	notice	is
	
conditioned	upon	the	effectiveness	of	other	credit	facilities,	in	which	case	such	notice	may	be	revoked	by	the	Borrower	(by	notice	to
	
the	Administrative	Agent	on	or	prior	to	the	specified	effective	date)	if	such	condition	is	not	satisfied.		Any	termination	or	reduction
	
of	the	Commitments	shall	be	permanent.		Each	reduction	of	the	Commitments	shall	be	made	ratably	among	the	Lenders	in
	
accordance	with	their	respective	Commitments.
	
SECTION	2.09.		
Repayment	of	Loans;	Evidence	of	Debt
.		(a)		The	Borrower	hereby	unconditionally	promises	to
	
pay	to	the	Administrative	Agent	for	the	account	of	each	Lender	the	then	unpaid	principal	amount	of	each	Loan	on	the	Maturity
	
Date.
(b)	
Each	Lender	shall	maintain	in	accordance	with	its	usual	practice	an	account	or	accounts	evidencing	the
	
indebtedness	of	the	Borrower	to	such	Lender	resulting	from	each	Loan	made	by	such	Lender,	including	the	amounts	of	principal
	
and	interest	payable	and	paid	to	such	Lender	from	time	to	time	hereunder.
(c)	
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	maintain	accounts	in	which	it	shall	record	(i)	the	amount	of	each	Loan	made
	
hereunder,	the	Type	and	currency	thereof,	the	Facility	under	which	such	Loan	was	borrowed	and	the	Interest	Period	applicable
	
thereto	(if	applicable),	(ii)	the	amount	of	any	principal	or	interest	due	and	payable	or	to	become	due	and	payable	from	the	Borrower
	
to	each	Lender	hereunder	and	(iii)	the	amount	of	any	sum	received	by	the	Administrative	Agent	hereunder	for	the	account	of	the
	
Lenders	and	each	Lender’s	share	thereof.
(d)	
The	entries	made	in	the	accounts	maintained	pursuant	to	
Sections	2.09(b)
	or	
(c)
	shall	be	
prima
	
facie
	
evidence	of	the	existence	and	amounts	of	the	obligations	recorded	therein;	
provided
	that	the	failure	of	any	Lender	or	the
	
Administrative	Agent	to	maintain	such	accounts	or	any	error	therein	shall	not	in	any	manner	affect	the	obligation	of	the	Borrower	to
	
repay	the	Loans	in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	this	Agreement.
(e)	
Any	Lender	may	request	that	Loans	made	by	it	be	evidenced	by	a	promissory	note.		In	such	event,	the
	
Borrower	shall	prepare,	execute	and	deliver	to	such	Lender	a	promissory	note	payable
	
48
	to	such	Lender	(or,	if	requested	by	such	Lender,	to	such	Lender	and	its	registered	assigns)	substantially	in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	G
	
hereto	(except	as	otherwise	agreed	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower)	(each	such	promissory	note,	a	“
Note
”).
		
Thereafter,	the	Loans	evidenced	by	such	promissory	note	and	interest	thereon	shall	at	all	times	(including	after	assignment
	
pursuant	to	
Section	9.04
)	be	represented	by	one	or	more	promissory	notes	in	such	form	payable	to	the	payee	named	therein	(or,	if
	
such	promissory	note	is	a	registered	note,	to	such	payee	and	its	registered	assigns).
SECTION	2.10.		
Prepayment	of	Loans
.		(a)		The	Borrower	shall	have	the	right	at	any	time	and	from	time	to	time	to
	
prepay	any	Borrowing	in	whole	or	in	part,	subject	to	prior	notice	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.10(b)
.
(b)	
The	Borrower	shall	notify	the	Administrative	Agent	by	telephone	(confirmed	by	electronic	mail	(or	in	any
	
other	manner	provided	for	in	
Section	9.01(b)
))	of	any	prepayment	hereunder	and	(i)	in	the	case	of	prepayment	of	an	ABR
	
Borrowing,	not	later	than	11:00	a.m.,	New	York	City	time,	on	the	date	of	prepayment,	(ii)	in	the	case	of	prepayment	of	a	Term
	
Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Dollars,	not	later	than	1:00	p.m.,	New	York	City	time,	three	(3)	Business	Days	before	the
	
date	of	prepayment,	(iii)	in	the	case	of	prepayment	of	a	SONIA	Borrowing,	not	later	than	1:00	p.m.,	London	time,	five	(5)	Business
	
Days	before	the	date	of	prepayment	and	(iv)	in	the	case	of	prepayment	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Euros,	not
	
later	than	1:00	p.m.,	London	time,	three	(3)	Business	Days	before	the	date	of	prepayment.		Each	such	notice	shall	be	irrevocable
	
and	shall	specify	the	prepayment	date,	the	Facility	under	which	the	prepayment	is	to	be	made	and	the	principal	amount	of	each
	
Borrowing	or	portion	thereof	to	be	prepaid;	
provided
	that,	if	a	notice	of	prepayment	is	given	in	connection	with	a	conditional	notice
	
of	termination	of	the	Commitments	as	contemplated	by	
Section	2.08
,	then	such	notice	of	prepayment	may	be	revoked	if	such	notice
	
of	termination	is	revoked	in	accordance	with	
Section	2.08
.		Promptly	following	receipt	of	any	such	notice	relating	to	a	Borrowing
	
under	the	Facility,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	advise	the	Lenders	of	the	contents	thereof.		Each	partial	prepayment	of	any
	
Borrowing	shall	be	in	an	amount	that	would	be	permitted	in	the	case	of	an	advance	of	a	Borrowing	of	the	same	Type	as	provided	in
	
Section	2.02
.		Each	prepayment	of	a	Borrowing	under	the	Facility	shall	be	applied	ratably	to	the	Loans	included	in	the	prepaid
	
Borrowing,	except	as	provided	in	
Section	2.20
.	Prepayments	shall	be	accompanied	by	accrued	interest	to	the	extent	required	by
	
Section	2.12
.
(c)	
The	Borrower	shall	prepay	the	outstanding	principal	amount	of	Loans	on	any	date	on	which	the	Dollar
	
Amount	of	all	outstanding	Loans	and	LC	Exposure	(after	giving	effect	to	any	other	repayments	or	prepayments	on	such	day)
	
exceeds	the	total	Commitments	then	in	effect	(including	in	each	case,	without	limitation,	solely	as	a	result	of	fluctuation	in
	
Exchange	Rates),	in	the	amount	of	such	excess	and	in	the	applicable	currency;	
provided
,	
however
,	that	if	such	excess	is	solely	as	a
	
result	of	fluctuation	in	Exchange	Rates,	(i)	the	Borrower	shall	not	be	obligated	to	pay	such	amount	until	four	(4)	Business	Days	after
	
notice	from	the	Administrative	Agent	and	(ii)	the	Borrower	shall	not	be	obligated	to	pay	such	amount	unless	such	excess	is	greater
	
than	the	Dollar	Amount	of	an	amount	equal	to	5%	of	the	total	Commitments.		If,	after	giving	effect	to	the	prepayment	of	all
	
outstanding	Loans	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.10(c)
,	the	aggregate	amount	of	LC	Exposure	exceeds	the	total	Commitments	then	in
	
effect,	the	Borrower	shall	cash	collateralize	LC	Exposure	by	depositing,	pursuant	to	a	cash	collateral	agreement	to	be	entered	into
	
in	form	and	substance	reasonably	satisfactory	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	cash	with	the	Administrative	Agent	in	an	amount	equal
	
to	the	difference	between	the	amount	of	such	LC	Exposure	and	the	total	Commitments	then	in	effect.		The	Administrative	Agent
	
shall	establish	in	its	name	for	the	benefit	of	the	Lenders	a	collateral	account	into	which	it	shall	deposit	such	cash	to	hold	as
	
collateral	security	for	the	LC	Exposure.
SECTION	2.11.		
Fees
.		(a)		The	Borrower	agrees	to	pay	to	the	Administrative	Agent	for	the	account	of	each	Lender
	
a	commitment	fee,	which	shall	accrue	at	the	Applicable	Rate	on	the	daily	unused	amount	of	the	Commitment	of	such	Lender	during
	
the	period	from	and	including	the	Effective
	
49
	Date	to	but	excluding	the	date	on	which	such	Commitment	terminates.		Commitment	fees	accrued	through	and	including	the	last
	
day	of	March,	June,	September	and	December	of	each	year	shall	be	payable	on	the	third	(3
rd
)	Business	Day	following	such	last	day,
	
commencing	on	the	first	such	date	to	occur	after	the	Effective	Date;	
provided
	that	all	such	fees	shall	be	payable	on	the	date	on
	
which	the	Commitments	terminate.		All	commitment	fees	shall	be	computed	on	the	basis	of	a	year	of	365	days	(or	366	days,	as	the
	
case	may	be)	and	shall	be	payable	for	the	actual	number	of	days	elapsed	(including	the	first	day	but	excluding	the	last	day).
(b)	
The	Borrower	agrees	to	pay	(i)	to	the	Administrative	Agent	for	the	account	of	each	Lender	a	participation	fee
	
with	respect	to	its	participations	in	Letters	of	Credit,	which	shall	accrue	at	the	same	Applicable	Rate	used	to	determine	the	interest
	
rate	applicable	to	Term	Benchmark	Loans	on	the	average	daily	amount	of	such	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	(excluding	any	portion
	
thereof	attributable	to	unreimbursed	LC	Disbursements)	during	the	period	from	and	including	the	Effective	Date	to	but	excluding
	
the	later	of	the	date	on	which	such	Lender’s	Commitment	terminates	and	the	date	on	which	such	Lender	ceases	to	have	any	LC
	
Exposure	and	(ii)	to	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	a	fronting	fee,	which	shall	accrue	at	a	rate	
per	annum
	equal	to	0.125%	on	the
	
average	daily	amount	of	the	LC	Exposure	(excluding	any	portion	thereof	attributable	to	unreimbursed	LC	Disbursements)	during
	
the	period	from	and	including	the	Effective	Date	to	but	excluding	the	later	of	the	date	of	termination	of	the	Commitments	and	the
	
date	on	which	there	ceases	to	be	any	LC	Exposure,	as	well	as	such	Issuing	Bank’s	standard	fees	with	respect	to	the	issuance,
	
amendment,	renewal	or	extension	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	or	processing	of	drawings	thereunder.		Participation	fees	and	fronting	fees
	
accrued	through	and	including	the	last	day	of	March,	June,	September	and	December	of	each	year	shall	be	payable	on	the	fifteenth
	
(15
th
)	day	following	such	last	day,	commencing	on	the	first	such	date	to	occur	after	the	Effective	Date;	
provided
	that	all	such	fees
	
shall	be	payable	on	the	date	on	which	the	Commitments	terminate	and	any	such	fees	accruing	after	the	date	on	which	the
	
Commitments	terminate	shall	be	payable	on	demand.		Any	other	fees	payable	to	an	Issuing	Bank	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(b)
	
shall	be	payable	within	ten	(10)	days	after	demand.		All	participation	fees	and	fronting	fees	shall	be	computed	on	the	basis	of	a	year
	
of	360	days	and	shall	be	payable	for	the	actual	number	of	days	elapsed	(including	the	first	day	but	excluding	the	last	day).
		
(c)	
The	Borrower	agrees	to	pay	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	for	its	own	account,	fees	payable	in	the	amounts
	
and	at	the	times	separately	agreed	upon	between	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent.
(d)	
All	fees	payable	hereunder	shall	be	paid	on	the	dates	due,	in	immediately	available	funds,	to	the
	
Administrative	Agent	(or	to	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank,	in	the	case	of	fees	payable	to	it)	for	distribution,	in	the	case	of	commitment
	
fees,	to	the	Lenders.		Fees	paid	shall	not	be	refundable	under	any	circumstances	other	than	any	Administrative	Agent	fees	which
	
shall	be	refunded	(on	a	prorated	basis)	if	the	Administrative	Agent	resigns	for	the	relevant	period	following	such	resignation.
SECTION	2.12.		
Interest
.
		
(a)	
The	Loans	comprising	each	ABR	Borrowing	shall	bear	interest	at	the	Alternate	Base	Rate,	
plus
	the	Applicable
	
Rate	applicable	to	such	Loans.
(b)	
The	Loans	comprising	each	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Dollars	shall	bear	interest	at	the
	
Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	for	the	Interest	Period	in	effect	for	such	Borrowing,	
plus
	the	Applicable	Rate	applicable	to	such	Loans.
(c)	
The	Loans	comprising	each	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	denominated	in	Euros	shall	bear	interest	at	the
	
Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate	for	the	Interest	Period	in	effect	for	such	Borrowing,	
plus
	the	Applicable	Rate	applicable	to	such	Loans.
		
50
	(d)	
The	Loans	comprising	each	SONIA	Borrowing	shall	bear	interest	at	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA	in	effect	for	such
	
Borrowing,	
plus
	the	Applicable	Rate	applicable	to	such	Loans.
(e)	
Notwithstanding	the	foregoing,	if	any	principal	of	or	interest	on	any	Loan	or	any	fee	or	other	amount	payable
	
by	the	Borrower	hereunder	is	not	paid	when	due,	whether	at	stated	maturity,	upon	acceleration	or	otherwise,	such	overdue	amount
	
shall	bear	interest,	after	as	well	as	before	judgment,	at	a	rate	per	annum	equal	to	(i)	in	the	case	of	overdue	principal	of	any	Loan,
	
2.0%,	
plus
	the	rate	otherwise	applicable	to	such	Loan	as	provided	in	the	preceding	
paragraphs	(a)
	through	
(d)
	of	this	
Section	2.12
	
or	(ii)	in	the	case	of	any	other	amount,	2.0%,	
plus
	the	rate	applicable	to	ABR	Loans	in	the	case	of	amounts	denominated	in	Dollars,
	
Euros	or	Pounds	Sterling	as	provided	in	
Section	2.12(a)
.
(f)	
Accrued	interest	on	each	Loan	shall	be	payable	in	arrears	on	each	Interest	Payment	Date	for	such	Loan	and
	
upon	termination	of	the	Commitments;	
provided
	that	(i)	interest	accrued	pursuant	to	
Section	2.12(g)
	shall	be	payable	within	two	(2)
	
Business	Days	after	written	demand	by	the	Administrative	Agent,	(ii)	in	the	event	of	any	repayment	or	prepayment	of	any	Loan
	
(other	than	a	prepayment	of	an	ABR	Loan	prior	to	the	end	of	the	Availability	Period),	accrued	interest	on	the	principal	amount
	
repaid	or	prepaid	shall	be	payable	on	the	date	of	such	repayment	or	prepayment	and	(iii)	in	the	event	of	any	conversion	of	any	Term
	
Benchmark	Loan	prior	to	the	end	of	the	current	Interest	Period	therefor,	accrued	interest	on	such	Loan	shall	be	payable	on	the
	
effective	date	of	such	conversion.
(g)	
All	interest	hereunder	shall	be	computed	on	the	basis	of	a	year	of	365	days	(or	366	days,	as	the	case	may	be),
	
except	that	interest	computed	with	respect	to	Term	Benchmark	Loans	shall	be	computed	on	the	basis	of	a	year	of	360	days,	and	in
	
each	case	shall	be	payable	for	the	actual	number	of	days	elapsed	(including	the	first	day	but	excluding	the	last	day).		The	applicable
	
Alternate	Base	Rate,	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	the	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate	or	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA,	as	applicable,	shall	be
	
determined	by	the	Administrative	Agent,	and	such	determination	shall	be	conclusive	absent	manifest	error.
SECTION	2.13.		
Inability	to	Determine	Rates
.		With	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan	or	SONIA	Loan,	subject
	
to	
Section	2.21
,	if:
(a)	the	Administrative	Agent	determines	(which	determination	shall	be	conclusive	and	binding	absent	manifest	error)
	
that:
	
(i)	(A)	if	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	or	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate	is	utilized	in	any	calculations	hereunder	or
	
under	any	other	Loan	Document	with	respect	to	any	Obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts,	“Adjusted
	
Term	SOFR	Rate”	or	“Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate”	cannot	be	determined	pursuant	to	the	definition	thereof	on	or	prior	to	the
	
first	day	of	any	Interest	Period	or	(B)	if	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA	is	utilized	in	any	calculations	hereunder	or	under	any	other
	
Loan	Document	with	respect	to	any	Obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts,	the	“Daily	Simple	SONIA”
	
cannot	be	determined	pursuant	to	the	definition	thereof;	or
	
(ii)	with	respect	to	any	such	Loan	denominated	in	a	Foreign	Currency,	a	fundamental	change	has	occurred	in
	
the	foreign	exchange	or	interbank	markets	with	respect	to	such	Foreign	Currency	(including	changes	in	national	or
	
international	financial,	political	or	economic	conditions	or	currency	exchange	rates	or	exchange	controls);	or
	
(b)	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan	or	any	request	therefor	or	a	conversion	thereto	or	a	continuation
	
thereof,	the	Required	Lenders	determine	(which	determination	shall	be	conclusive	and	binding	absent	manifest	error)	that	deposits
	
in	the	applicable	Agreed	Currency	are	not	being	offered	to
	
51
	banks	in	the	applicable	offshore	interbank	market	for	the	applicable	Agreed	Currency,	amount	or	Interest	Period	of	such	Term
	
Benchmark	Loan,	and	the	Required	Lenders	have	provided	notice	of	such	determination	to	the	Administrative	Agent;	or
	
(c)		the	Required	Lenders	determine	that	for	any	reason	in	connection	with	any	request	for	such	Loan	or	a	conversion
	
thereto	or	a	continuation	thereof	that	(i)	if	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	or	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate	is	utilized	in	any	calculations
	
hereunder	or	under	any	other	Loan	Document	with	respect	to	any	Obligations,	interest,	fees,	commissions	or	other	amounts,	the
	
Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	or	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,	as	applicable,	does	not	adequately	and	fairly	reflect	the	cost	to	such	Lenders
	
of	making	or	maintaining,	continuing	or	converting	to	such	Loan	during	the	applicable	Interest	Period	or	(ii)	if	the	Daily	Simple
	
SONIA	is	utilized	in	any	calculations	hereunder	or	under	any	other	Loan	Document	with	respect	to	any	Obligations,	interest,	fees,
	
commissions	or	other	amounts,	the	Daily	Simple	SONIA	does	not	adequately	and	fairly	reflect	the	cost	to	such	Lenders	of	making	or
	
maintaining,	continuing	or	converting	to	such	Loans,	and,	in	the	case	of	
clauses	(i)
	or	
(ii)
,	the	Required	Lenders	have	provided
	
notice	of	such	determination	to	the	Administrative	Agent,
	
then,	in	each	case,	the	Administrative	Agent	will	promptly	so	notify	the	Borrower	and	each	applicable	Lender.		Upon
	
notice	thereof	by	the	Administrative	Agent	to	the	Borrower,	any	obligation	of	the	Lenders	to	make	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or
	
SONIA	Loans,	as	applicable,	in	each	such	Agreed	Currency,	and	any	right	of	the	Borrower	to	convert	any	Loan	in	each	such	Agreed
	
Currency	(if	applicable)	to	or	continue	any	Loan	as	a	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA	Loan,	as	applicable,	in	each	such	Agreed
	
Currency,	shall	be	suspended	(to	the	extent	of	the	affected	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA	Loans	or,	in	the	case	of	Term
	
Benchmark	Loans,	the	affected	Interest	Periods)	until	the	Administrative	Agent	(with	respect	to	
clauses	(b)
	or	
(c)
,	at	the	instruction
	
of	the	Required	Lenders)	revokes	such	notice.		Upon	receipt	of	such	notice,	(i)	the	Borrower	may	revoke	any	pending	request	for
	
Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	of,	conversion	to	or	continuation	of	Term	Benchmark	Loans,	or	a	SONIA	Borrowing	of,	conversion	to	or
	
continuation	of	SONIA	Loans,	in	each	case,	in	the	applicable	Agreed	Currency	and,	failing	that,	(A)	in	the	case	of	any	request	for
	
any	affected	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	in	Dollars,	if	applicable,	the	Borrower	will	be	deemed	to	have	converted	any	such	request
	
into	a	request	for	an	ABR	Borrowing	or	conversion	to	ABR	Loans	in	the	amount	specified	therein	and	(B)	in	the	case	of	any	request
	
for	any	affected	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	or	SONIA	Borrowing,	in	each	case,	in	a	Foreign	Currency,	if	applicable,	then	such
	
request	shall	be	ineffective	and	(ii)(A)	any	outstanding	affected	Term	Benchmark	Loans	denominated	in	Dollars,	if	applicable,	will
	
be	deemed	to	have	been	converted	into	ABR	Loans	immediately	and	(B)	any	outstanding	affected	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA
	
Loans,	in	each	case,	denominated	in	a	Foreign	Currency,	at	the	Borrower’s	election,	shall	either	(I)	be	converted	into	ABR	Loans
	
denominated	in	Dollars	(in	an	amount	equal	to	the	equivalent	thereof	in	Dollars	of	such	Foreign	Currency)	immediately	or,	in	the
	
case	of	Term	Benchmark	Loans,	at	the	end	of	the	applicable	Interest	Period	or	(II)	be	prepaid	in	full	immediately	or,	in	the	case	of
	
Term	Benchmark	Loans,	at	the	end	of	the	applicable	Interest	Period;	
provided
	that,	with	respect	to	any	SONIA	Loan,	if	no	election
	
is	made	by	the	Borrower	by	the	date	that	is	three	(3)	Business	Days	after	receipt	by	the	Borrower	of	such	notice,	the	Borrower	shall
	
be	deemed	to	have	elected	
clause	(I)
	above;	
provided,
	
further
,	that,	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	if	no	election	is
	
made	by	the	Borrower	by	the	earlier	of	(x)	the	date	that	is	three	(3)	Business	Days	after	receipt	by	the	Borrower	of	such	notice	and
	
(y)	the	last	day	of	the	current	Interest	Period	for	the	applicable	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	the	Borrower	shall	be	deemed	to	have
	
elected	
clause	(I)
	above.	Upon	any	such	prepayment	or	conversion,	the	Borrower	shall	also	pay	accrued	interest	on	the	amount	so
	
prepaid	or	converted,	together	with	any	additional	amounts	required	pursuant	to	
Section	2.15
.
		
	
SECTION	2.14.		
Increased	Costs
.		(a)		If	any	Governmental	Authority	shall	have	in	effect	at	any	time	during	the
	
term	of	this	Agreement	any	reserve,	liquid	asset	or	similar	requirement	with	respect	to	any	category	of	deposits	or	liabilities
	
customarily	used	to	fund	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA	Loans,	as	applicable,	or	by	reference	to	which	interest	rates	applicable
	
to	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or
	
52
	SONIA	Loans,	as	applicable,	are	determined,	and	the	result	of	such	requirement	shall	be	to	increase	the	cost	to	any	Lender	of
	
making	or	maintaining,	continuing	or	converting	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA	Loans,	as	applicable,	and	such	Lender
	
shall	have	requested,	by	notice	to	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent	(which	notice	shall	specify	the	Statutory	Reserve
	
Percentage	applicable	to	such	Lender),	compensation	under	this	
paragraph	(a)
,	then	the	Borrower	will	pay	to	such	Lender	(until	the
	
earlier	of	the	date	such	Lender	shall	advise	the	Borrower	that	such	requirement	is	no	longer	in	effect	or	the	date	such	Lender	shall
	
withdraw	such	request)	amounts	sufficient	to	compensate	such	Lender	for	such	additional	costs	of	making	or	maintaining,
	
continuing	or	converting	to	such	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA	Loans,	as	applicable.
(b)	
If	any	Change	in	Law	shall:
(i)	impose,	modify	or	deem	applicable	any	reserve,	special	deposit,	compulsory	loan,	insurance	charge	or
	
similar	requirement	against	assets	of,	deposits	with	or	for	the	account	of,	or	credit	extended	by,	any	Lender	or	Issuing
	
Bank	(except	to	the	extent	covered	by	
Section	2.14(a)
);
		
(ii)	impose	on	any	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank,	the	London	interbank	market	or	any	applicable	market	any	other
	
cost	or	expense	condition	affecting	this	Agreement,	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA	Loans,	as	applicable,	made	by	such
	
Lender	or	any	Letter	of	Credit	or	participation	thereon;	or
(iii)	subject	any	Lender	to	any	Tax	(except	for	(1)	Indemnified	Taxes,	(2)	Taxes	described	in	
clauses	(b)
	through
	
(d)
	of	the	definition	of	“Excluded	Taxes”	and	(3)	Other	Connection	Taxes	imposed	on	net	income,	profits	or	revenue
	
(including	value-added	or	similar	Taxes))	on	its	loans,	loan	principal,	letters	of	credit,	commitments,	or	other	obligations,
	
or	its	deposits,	reserves,	other	liabilities	or	capital	attributable	thereto,	or	that	are	franchise	Taxes	or	branch	profits	Taxes;
and	the	result	of	any	of	the	foregoing	shall	be	to	increase	the	cost	to	such	Lender	of	making	or	maintaining,	continuing	or
	
converting	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan	or	SONIA	Loan	(or,	in	the	case	of	
Section	2.14(b)(iii)
,	any	Loan)	or	maintaining	its
	
obligation	to	make	any	such	Loan	or	to	increase	the	cost	to	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	or	such	other	Recipient	of
	
participating	in,	issuing	or	maintaining	any	Letter	of	Credit	(including,	without	limitation,	pursuant	to	any	conversion	of	any
	
Borrowing	denominated	in	a	Foreign	Currency	into	a	Borrowing	denominated	in	any	other	Foreign	Currency)	or	to	reduce	the
	
amount	of	any	sum	received	or	receivable	by	such	Lender,	such	Issuing	Bank	or	such	other	Recipient	hereunder	(whether	of
	
principal,	interest	or	otherwise),	then	the	Borrower	will	pay	to	such	Lender,	such	Issuing	Bank	or	such	other	Recipient,	as	the	case
	
may	be,	such	additional	amount	or	amounts	as	will	compensate	such	Lender,	such	Issuing	Bank	or	such	other	Recipient,	as	the	case
	
may	be,	for	such	additional	costs	incurred	or	reduction	suffered.
	
(c)	
If	any	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	determines	that	any	Change	in	Law	regarding	capital	or	liquidity	requirements
	
has	or	would	have	the	effect	of	reducing	the	rate	of	return	on	such	Lender’s	or	the	Issuing	Bank’s	capital	or	on	the	capital	of	such
	
Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s	holding	company,	if	any,	as	a	consequence	of	this	Agreement	or	the	Loans	made	by,	or	participations	in
	
Letters	of	Credit	held	by,	such	Lender,	or	the	Letters	of	Credit	issued	by	such	Issuing	Bank,	to	a	level	below	that	which	such	Lender
	
or	Issuing	Bank	or	such	Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s	holding	company	could	have	achieved	but	for	such	Change	in	Law	(taking	into
	
consideration	such	Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s	policies	and	the	policies	of	such	Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s	holding	company	with
	
respect	to	capital	adequacy	or	liquidity),	then	from	time	to	time	the	Borrower	will	pay	to	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank,	as	the	case
	
may	be,	such	additional	amount	or	amounts	as	will	compensate	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	or	such	Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s
	
holding	company	for	any	such	reduction	suffered.
53
	(d)	
A	certificate	of	a	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	setting	forth	the	amount	or	amounts	necessary	to	compensate	such
	
Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	or	its	holding	company,	as	the	case	may	be,	as	specified	in	
Sections	2.14(a)
,	
(b)
	or	
(c)
	shall	be	delivered	to
	
the	Borrower	and	shall	be	conclusive	and	binding	on	all	parties	hereto	absent	manifest	error.		The	Borrower	shall	pay	such	Lender
	
or	Issuing	Bank,	as	the	case	may	be,	the	amount	shown	as	due	on	any	such	certificate	within	ten	(10)	Business	Days	after	receipt
	
thereof.
		
(e)	
Failure	or	delay	on	the	part	of	any	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	to	demand	compensation	pursuant	to	this	
Section
	
2.14
	shall	not	constitute	a	waiver	of	such	Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s	right	to	demand	such	compensation;	
provided
	that	the
	
Borrower	shall	not	be	required	to	compensate	a	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.14
	for	any	increased	costs	or
	
reductions	incurred	more	than	180	days	prior	to	the	date	that	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	notifies	the	Borrower	in	writing	of	the
	
Change	in	Law	giving	rise	to	such	increased	costs	or	reductions	and	of	such	Lender’s	or	Issuing	Bank’s	intention	to	claim
	
compensation	therefor;	
provided
,	
further
,	that	if	the	Change	in	Law	giving	rise	to	such	increased	costs	or	reductions	is	retroactive,
	
then	the	180-day	period	referred	to	above	shall	be	extended	to	include	the	period	of	retroactive	effect	thereof.
SECTION	2.15.		
Break	Funding	Payments
.		In	the	event	of	(a)	the	payment	of	any	principal	of	any	Term
	
Benchmark	Loan	other	than	on	the	last	day	of	an	Interest	Period	applicable	thereto	(including	as	a	result	of	an	Event	of	Default),	(b)
	
the	conversion	of	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan	other	than	on	the	last	day	of	the	Interest	Period	applicable	thereto,	(c)	the	failure	to
	
borrow,	convert,	continue	or	prepay	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan	on	the	date	specified	in	any	notice	delivered	pursuant	hereto
	
(regardless	of	whether	such	notice	may	be	revoked	under	
Section	2.10(b)
	and	is	revoked	in	accordance	therewith)	or	(d)	the
	
assignment	of	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan	other	than	on	the	last	day	of	the	Interest	Period	applicable	thereto	as	a	result	of	a	request
	
by	the	Borrower	pursuant	to	
Section	2.19
	(except	that	a	Defaulting	Lender	required	to	assign	its	Loans	under	
Section	2.19(b)
	shall
	
not	be	entitled	to	compensation	under	this	
Section	2.15
	in	connection	with	such	assignment),	then,	in	any	such	event,	the	Borrower
	
shall	compensate	each	Lender	for	the	loss,	cost	and	expense	attributable	to	such	event.		In	the	case	of	a	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	as
	
applicable,	such	loss,	cost	or	expense	to	any	Lender	shall	be	an	amount	equal	to	the	amount	determined	by	such	Lender	to	be	the
	
excess,	if	any,	of	(i)	the	amount	of	interest	which	would	have	accrued	on	the	principal	amount	of	such	Loan	had	such	event	not
	
occurred,	at	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate	or	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,	as	applicable,	that	would	have	been	applicable	to	such
	
Loan,	for	the	period	from	the	date	of	such	event	to	the	last	day	of	the	then	current	Interest	Period	therefor	(or,	in	the	case	of	a
	
failure	to	borrow,	convert	or	continue,	for	the	period	that	would	have	been	the	Interest	Period	for	such	Loan),	over	(ii)	the	amount
	
of	interest	which	would	accrue	on	such	principal	amount	for	such	period	at	the	interest	rate	which	such	Lender	would	bid	were	it	to
	
bid,	at	the	commencement	of	such	period,	in	the	applicable	currency	of	a	comparable	amount	and	period	from	other	banks	in	the
	
applicable	market.		A	certificate	of	any	Lender	setting	forth	any	amount	or	amounts	that	such	Lender	is	entitled	to	receive	pursuant
	
to	this	
Section	2.15
	shall	be	delivered	to	the	Borrower	and	shall	be	conclusive	absent	manifest	error.		The	Borrower	shall	pay	such
	
Lender	the	amount	shown	as	due	on	any	such	certificate	within	ten	(10)	Business	Days	after	receipt	thereof.
SECTION	2.16.		
Taxes
.		(a)		Any	and	all	payments	by	or	on	account	of	any	obligation	of	the	Borrower	hereunder
	
shall	be	made	free	and	clear	of	and	without	deduction	or	withholding	for	any	Taxes;	
provided
	that,	if	any	Withholding	Agent
	
determines,	in	its	sole	discretion	exercised	in	good	faith,	that	it	is	so	required	to	deduct	or	withhold	Taxes,	then	(i)	such
	
Withholding	Agent	shall	so	deduct	and	withhold	and	shall	pay	the	full	amount	of	deducted	or	withheld	Taxes	to	the	relevant
	
Governmental	Authority	in	accordance	with	applicable	law	and	(ii)	if	such	Taxes	are	Indemnified	Taxes	or	Other	Taxes,	the	sum
	
payable	shall	be	increased	as	necessary	so	that	after	making	all	required	deductions	and	withholdings	(including	such	deduction	or
	
withholding	applicable	to	additional	sums	payable	under	this
	
54
	Section	2.16
)	the	Administrative	Agent	or	each	Lender	(as	the	case	may	be)	receives	an	amount	equal	to	the	sum	it	would	have
	
received	had	no	such	deduction	or	withholding	been	made.
(b)	
The	Borrower	shall	pay	to	the	relevant	Governmental	Authority	in	accordance	with	applicable	law,	or	at	the
	
option	of	the	Administrative	Agent	timely	reimburse	it	for,	Other	Taxes.
(c)	
Without	duplication	of	amounts	payable	under	
Sections	2.16(a)
	or	
(b)
,	the	Borrower	shall	indemnify	the
	
Administrative	Agent	and	each	Lender,	within	(ten)	10	Business	Days	after	written	demand	therefor,	for	the	full	amount	of	any
	
Indemnified	Taxes	or	Other	Taxes	paid	by	the	Administrative	Agent	or	such	Lender,	as	the	case	may	be,	on	or	with	respect	to	any
	
payment	by	or	on	account	of	any	obligation	of	the	Borrower	hereunder	(including	Indemnified	Taxes	or	Other	Taxes	imposed	or
	
asserted	on	or	attributable	to	amounts	payable	under	this	
Section	2.16
),	and	any	reasonable	expenses	arising	therefrom	or	with
	
respect	thereto,	whether	or	not	such	Indemnified	Taxes	or	Other	Taxes	were	correctly	or	legally	imposed	or	asserted	by	the
	
relevant	Governmental	Authority.		The	Administrative	Agent	and	each	Lender	will	promptly	notify	the	Borrower	of	any	event	of
	
which	it	has	knowledge,	which	will	entitle	it	to	compensation	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.16
.		A	certificate	as	to	the	amount	of	such
	
payment	or	liability	delivered	to	the	Borrower	by	a	Lender	(with	a	copy	to	the	Administrative	Agent),	or	by	the	Administrative	Agent
	
on	its	own	behalf	or	on	behalf	of	a	Lender,	shall	be	conclusive	absent	demonstrable	error.
(d)	
Each	Lender	shall	severally	indemnify	the	Administrative	Agent,	within	ten	(10)	days	after	demand	therefor,
	
for	any	Taxes	(but,	in	the	case	of	any	Indemnified	Taxes	or	Other	Taxes,	only	to	the	extent	that	the	Borrower	has	not	already
	
indemnified	the	Administrative	Agent	for	such	Taxes	and	without	limiting	the	obligation	of	the	Borrower	to	do	so)	attributable	to
	
such	Lender	and	any	Taxes	attributable	to	such	Lender’s	failure	to	comply	with	the	provisions	of	
Section	9.04(c)
	relating	to	the
	
maintenance	of	a	Participant	Register,	in	either	case,	that	are	paid	or	payable	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	connection	with	this
	
Agreement	and	any	reasonable	expenses	arising	therefrom	or	with	respect	thereto,	whether	or	not	such	Taxes	were	correctly	or
	
legally	imposed	or	asserted	by	the	relevant	Governmental	Authority.		A	certificate	as	to	the	amount	of	such	payment	or	liability
	
delivered	to	a	Lender	by	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	be	conclusive	absent	manifest	error.		Each	Lender	hereby	authorizes	the
	
Administrative	Agent	to	set	off	and	apply	any	and	all	amounts	at	any	time	owing	to	such	Lender	under	this	Agreement	or	otherwise
	
payable	by	the	Administrative	Agent	to	the	Lender	from	any	other	source	against	any	amount	due	to	the	Administrative	Agent
	
under	this	
paragraph	(d)
.
(e)	
As	soon	as	practicable	after	any	payment	of	Taxes	by	the	Borrower	to	a	Governmental	Authority	pursuant	to
	
this	
Section	2.16
,	the	Borrower	shall	deliver	to	the	Administrative	Agent	the	original	or	a	certified	copy	of	a	receipt	issued	by	such
	
Governmental	Authority	evidencing	such	payment,	a	copy	of	the	return	reporting	such	payment	or	other	evidence	of	such	payment
	
reasonably	satisfactory	to	the	Administrative	Agent.
(f)	
The	Administrative	Agent,	each	Lender	and	all	recipients	of	payments	to	be	made	by	or	on	account	of	any
	
obligation	of	the	Borrower	hereunder	that	are	entitled	to	an	exemption	from	or	reduction	of	withholding	or	backup	withholding	Tax
	
with	respect	to	any	payments	under	this	Agreement	shall	deliver	to	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent,	on	or	prior	to	the
	
Effective	Date	(or,	as	applicable,	the	date	on	which	such	Lender	becomes	a	Lender	under	this	Agreement)	and	from	time	to	time
	
thereafter	upon	the	reasonable	request	of	the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent	or	as	otherwise	prescribed	by	applicable	law,
	
such	valid,	properly	completed	and	duly	executed	forms,	certificates,	and	documentation	(including,	as	applicable,	the	applicable
	
U.S.	Tax	Compliance	Certificate,	IRS	Form	W-8ECI,	W-8BEN,	W-8BEN-E,	W-8IMY,	or	IRS	Form	W-9)	prescribed	by	applicable	law
	
or	reasonably	requested	by	the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent	as	will	permit	such	payments	to	be	made	without	or	at	a
	
reduced	rate	of	withholding.	Any	Lender,	if	reasonably	requested	by	the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent,	shall	deliver	such
	
other	documentation	prescribed	by	applicable	law	or	reasonably
	
55
	requested	by	the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent	as	will	enable	the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent	to	determine
	
whether	or	not	such	Lender	is	subject	to	information	reporting	requirements.		In	addition,	if	a	payment	made	to	a	Lender	under	this
	
Agreement	would	be	subject	to	U.S.	federal	withholding	Tax	imposed	by	FATCA	if	such	Lender	were	to	fail	to	comply	with	the
	
applicable	reporting	requirements	of	FATCA	(including	those	contained	in	Section	1471(b)	or	1472(b)	of	the	Code,	as	applicable),
	
such	Lender	shall	deliver	to	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent,	at	the	time	or	times	prescribed	by	law	and	at	such	time	or
	
times	reasonably	requested	by	the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent,	such	documentation	prescribed	by	applicable	law
	
(including	as	prescribed	by	Section	1471(b)(3)(C)(i)	of	the	Code)	and	such	additional	documentation	reasonably	requested	by	the
	
Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent	as	may	be	necessary	for	the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent	to	comply	with	its
	
obligations	under	FATCA,	to	determine	that	such	Lender	has	complied	with	such	Lender’s	obligations	under	FATCA	or	to	determine
	
the	amount	to	deduct	and	withhold	from	such	payment.		Each	Lender,	the	Administrative	Agent	and	each	recipient	of	payment
	
agrees	that	if	any	form	or	certification	it	previously	delivered	expires	or	becomes	obsolete	or	inaccurate	in	any	respect	(including,
	
for	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	if	the	form	is	inaccurate	because	its	payee	status	changes	from	beneficial	owner	to	intermediary	or	vice
	
versa),	it	shall	update	such	form	or	certification	or	promptly	notify	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent	in	writing	of	its	legal
	
inability	to	do	so.		Solely	for	purposes	of	this	
Section	2.16(f)
,	“FATCA”	shall	include	any	amendments	made	to	FATCA	after	the	date
	
of	this	Agreement.
(g)	
If	the	Borrower	determines	in	good	faith	that	a	reasonable	basis	exists	for	contesting	any	Indemnified	Tax	or
	
Other	Tax,	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	relevant	Lender,	as	applicable,	shall	reasonably	cooperate	with	the	Borrower	in	the
	
Borrower’s	challenging	such	Tax	at	the	Borrower’s	expense	if	requested	by	the	Borrower	(it	being	understood	and	agreed	that	none
	
of	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	of	the	Lenders	shall	have	any	obligation	to	contest,	or	any	responsibility	for	contesting,	any	such
	
Tax).		If	the	Administrative	Agent	or	a	Lender	determines,	in	its	sole	discretion	exercised	in	good	faith,	that	it	has	received	a	refund
	
of	any	Indemnified	Taxes	or	Other	Taxes	as	to	which	it	has	been	indemnified	by	the	Borrower	or	with	respect	to	which	the	Borrower
	
has	paid	additional	amounts	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.16
,	it	shall	pay	over	such	refund	to	the	Borrower	(but	only	to	the	extent	of
	
indemnity	payments	made,	or	additional	amounts	paid,	by	the	Borrower	under	this	
Section	2.16
	with	respect	to	the	Indemnified
	
Taxes	or	Other	Taxes	giving	rise	to	such	refund),	net	of	all	reasonable	and	documented	out-of-pocket	expenses	of	the	Administrative
	
Agent	or	such	Lender	and	without	interest	(other	than	any	interest	paid	by	the	relevant	Governmental	Authority	with	respect	to
	
such	refund);	
provided
	that	the	Borrower,	upon	the	request	of	the	Administrative	Agent	or	such	Lender,	agrees	to	repay	the	amount
	
paid	over	to	the	Borrower	(plus	any	penalties,	interest	or	other	charges	imposed	by	the	relevant	Governmental	Authority)	to	the
	
Administrative	Agent	or	such	Lender	in	the	event	the	Administrative	Agent	or	such	Lender	is	required	to	repay	such	refund	to	such
	
Governmental	Authority.	Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	in	this	
paragraph	(g)
,	in	no	event	will	the	indemnified	party	be
	
required	to	pay	any	amount	to	an	indemnifying	party	pursuant	to	this	
paragraph	(g)
	the	payment	of	which	would	place	the
	
indemnified	party	in	a	less	favorable	net	after-Tax	position	than	the	indemnified	party	would	have	been	in	if	the	Tax	subject	to
	
indemnification	and	giving	rise	to	such	refund	had	not	been	deducted,	withheld	or	otherwise	imposed	and	the	indemnification
	
payments	or	additional	amounts	with	respect	to	such	Tax	had	never	been	paid.		This	
Section	2.16
	shall	not	be	construed	to	require
	
the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender	to	make	available	its	tax	returns	(or	any	other	information	relating	to	its	taxes	which	it
	
deems	confidential)	to	the	Borrower	or	any	other	Person.
	
(h)	
Each	party’s	obligations	under	this	
Section	2.16
	shall	survive	the	resignation	or	replacement	of	the
	
Administrative	Agent	or	any	assignment	of	rights	by,	or	the	replacement	of,	a	Lender,	the	termination	of	the	Commitments	and	the
	
repayment,	satisfaction	or	discharge	of	all	obligations	hereunder.
(i)	
For	purposes	of	this	
Section	2.16
,	the	term	“Lender”	includes	any	Issuing	Bank.
56
	SECTION	2.17.		
Payments	Generally;	Pro	Rata	Treatment;	Sharing	of	Setoffs
.		(a)		The	Borrower	shall	make	each
	
payment	required	to	be	made	by	it	hereunder	(whether	of	principal,	interest	or	fees	or	reimbursements	of	LC	Disbursements,	or	of
	
amounts	payable	under	
Sections	2.14
,	
2.15
	or	
2.16
,	or	otherwise)	prior	to	2:00	p.m.,	New	York	City	time,	in	respect	of	payments	of
	
principal	or	interest	relating	to	Borrowings,	or	in	respect	of	any	fees	payable	under	this	Agreement	on	the	date	when	due,	in
	
immediately	available	funds,	without	setoff	or	counterclaim.		Any	amounts	received	after	such	time	on	any	date	may,	in	the
	
discretion	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	be	deemed	to	have	been	received	on	the	next	succeeding	Business	Day	for	purposes	of
	
calculating	interest	thereon.		All	such	payments	shall	be	made	to	the	Administrative	Agent	at	its	offices	at	the	Funding	Office,	in
	
respect	of	payments	of	principal	or	interest	relating	to	Borrowings,	or	in	respect	of	payments	of	any	fees	under	this	Agreement,	or
	
such	other	office	as	may	be	designated	by	the	Administrative	Agent	by	written	notice	to	the	Borrower	and	the	Lenders,	except
	
payments	to	be	made	directly	to	an	Issuing	Bank	as	expressly	provided	herein		and	except	that	payments	pursuant	to	
Sections	2.14
,
	
2.15
,	
2.16
	and	
9.03
	shall	be	made	directly	to	the	Persons	entitled	thereto.		The	Administrative	Agent	shall	distribute	any	such
	
payments	received	by	it	to	each	Lender	according	to	its	ratable	share	(or	other	applicable	share	as	provided	herein)	of	such
	
payments	(or	otherwise	distribute	such	payments	for	the	account	of	any	other	Person	to	the	appropriate	recipient)	promptly
	
following	receipt	thereof.		If	any	payment	hereunder	shall	be	due	on	a	day	that	is	not	a	Business	Day,	the	date	for	payment	shall	be
	
extended	to	the	next	succeeding	Business	Day	(unless,	in	the	case	of	a	payment	of	interest	on	a	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	as
	
applicable,	such	next	succeeding	Business	Day	would	fall	in	the	next	calendar	month,	in	which	case	such	payment	shall	be	due	on
	
the	next	preceding	Business	Day),	and,	in	the	case	of	any	payment	accruing	interest,	interest	thereon	shall	be	payable	for	the
	
period	of	such	extension.		All	payments	hereunder	shall	be	made	in	Dollars;	
provided
	that	any	payment	of	principal	or	interest	of	an
	
ABR	Loan,	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	or	SONIA	Loan,	as	applicable,	shall	be	made	in	the	currency	in	which	the	Loan	is	denominated.
(b)	
At	any	time	that	payments	are	not	required	to	be	applied	in	the	manner	required	by	
Section	7.02
,	if	at	any
	
time	insufficient	funds	are	received	by	and	available	to	the	Administrative	Agent	to	pay	fully	all	amounts	of	principal,	unreimbursed
	
LC	Disbursements,	interest	and	fees	then	due	hereunder,	such	funds	shall	be	applied	(i)	
first
,	towards	payment	of	interest	and	fees
	
then	due	hereunder,	ratably	among	the	parties	entitled	thereto	in	accordance	with	the	amounts	of	interest	and	fees	then	due	to
	
such	parties	and	(ii)	
second
,	towards	payment	of	principal	and	unreimbursed	LC	Disbursements	then	due	hereunder,	ratably	among
	
the	parties	entitled	thereto	in	accordance	with	the	amounts	of	principal	and	unreimbursed	LC	Disbursements	then	due	to	such
	
parties
(c)	
If	any	Lender	shall,	by	exercising	any	right	of	setoff	or	counterclaim	or	otherwise,	obtain	payment	in	respect
	
of	any	principal	of	or	interest	on	any	of	its	Loans	or	participations	in	LC	Disbursements	resulting	in	such	Lender	under	the	Facility
	
receiving	payment	of	a	greater	proportion	of	the	aggregate	amount	of	its	Loans	and	participations	in	LC	Disbursements	and
	
accrued	interest	thereon	than	the	proportion	received	by	any	other	Lender	under	the	Facility,	then	the	Lender	receiving	such
	
greater	proportion	shall	purchase	(for	cash	at	face	value)	participations	in	the	Loans	and	participations	in	LC	Disbursements	of
	
other	Lenders	under	the	Facility	to	the	extent	necessary	so	that	the	benefit	of	all	such	payments	shall	be	shared	by	the	Lenders
	
ratably	in	accordance	with	the	aggregate	amount	of	principal	of	and	accrued	interest	on	their	respective	Loans	and	participations
	
in	LC	Disbursements;	
provided
	that	(i)	if	any	such	participations	are	purchased	and	all	or	any	portion	of	the	payment	giving	rise
	
thereto	is	recovered,	such	participations	shall	be	rescinded	and	the	purchase	price	restored	to	the	extent	of	such	recovery,	without
	
interest	and	(ii)	the	provisions	of	this	
paragraph	(c)
	shall	not	be	construed	to	apply	to	any	payment	made	by	the	Borrower	pursuant
	
to	and	in	accordance	with	the	express	terms	of	this	Agreement	or	any	payment	obtained	by	a	Lender	as	consideration	for	the
	
assignment	of	or	sale	of	a	participation	in	any	of	its	Loans	or	participations	in	LC	Disbursements	to	any	assignee	or	participant,
	
other	than	to	the	Borrower	or	any	Subsidiary	or	Affiliate	thereof	(as	to	which	the	provisions	of	this	
paragraph	(c)
	shall	apply).		The
	
Borrower	consents	to	the	foregoing	and	agrees,	to	the	extent	it	may
	
57
	effectively	do	so	under	applicable	law,	that	any	Lender	acquiring	a	participation	pursuant	to	the	foregoing	arrangements	may
	
exercise	against	the	Borrower	rights	of	setoff	and	counterclaim	with	respect	to	such	participation	as	fully	as	if	such	Lender	were	a
	
direct	creditor	of	the	Borrower	in	the	amount	of	such	participation.
(d)	
Unless	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	notice	from	the	Borrower	prior	to	the	date	on	which	any
	
payment	is	due	to	the	Administrative	Agent	for	the	account	of	the	Lenders	or	the	Issuing	Banks	hereunder	that	the	Borrower	will
	
not	make	such	payment,	the	Administrative	Agent	may	assume	that	the	Borrower	has	made	such	payment	on	such	date	in
	
accordance	herewith	and	may,	in	reliance	upon	such	assumption,	distribute	to	the	Lenders	or	the	Issuing	Banks,	as	the	case	may
	
be,	the	amount	due.		In	such	event,	if	the	Borrower	has	not	in	fact	made	such	payment,	then	each	of	the	Lenders	or	the	Issuing
	
Banks,	as	the	case	may	be,	severally	agrees	to	repay	to	the	Administrative	Agent	forthwith	on	demand	the	amount	so	distributed	to
	
such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	with	interest	thereon,	for	each	day	from	and	including	the	date	such	amount	is	distributed	to	it	to	but
	
excluding	the	date	of	payment	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	at	the	greater	of	(a)	the	applicable	Federal	Funds	Effective	Rate	from
	
time	to	time	in	effect	and	(b)	a	rate	determined	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	accordance	with	banking	industry	rules	on	interbank
	
compensation	(including	the	Overnight	Rate	in	the	case	of	Loans	denominated	in	Foreign	Currency	other	than	Dollars).
(e)	
If	any	Lender	shall	fail	to	make	any	payment	required	to	be	made	by	it	pursuant	to	
Sections	2.06(b)
	or
	
2.17(d)
,	then	the	Administrative	Agent	may,	in	its	discretion	(notwithstanding	any	contrary	provision	hereof),	apply	any	amounts
	
thereafter	received	by	the	Administrative	Agent	for	the	account	of	such	Lender	to	satisfy	such	Lender’s	obligations	under	such
	
Sections	2.06(b)
	and	
2.17(d)
	until	all	such	unsatisfied	obligations	are	fully	paid.
SECTION	2.18.		
Currency	Equivalents
.
		
(a)	
No	later	than	12:00	Noon,	London	time,	on	each	Calculation	Date	with	respect	to	Euros	and	Pounds	Sterling,
	
as	applicable,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	determine	the	Exchange	Rate	as	of	such	Calculation	Date	with	respect	to	such	Foreign
	
Currency.		The	Exchange	Rates	so	determined	shall	become	effective	on	the	relevant	Calculation	Date	(a	“
Reset	Date
”),	shall
	
remain	effective	until	the	next	succeeding	Reset	Date	and	shall	for	all	purposes	of	this	Agreement	(other	than	
Section	9.16
	and	any
	
other	provision	expressly	requiring	the	use	of	a	current	Exchange	Rate)	be	the	Exchange	Rates	employed	in	converting	any
	
amounts	from	such	Foreign	Currency	to	Dollars.	The	Administrative	Agent	shall	promptly	notify	the	Borrower	and	the	Lenders	of
	
each	determination	of	an	Exchange	Rate	hereunder.
(b)	
No	later	than	5:00	p.m.,	London	time,	with	respect	to	Euros	and	Pounds	Sterling,	as	applicable,	on	each
	
Reset	Date,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	determine	the	aggregate	Dollar	Amount	of	the	Term	Benchmark	Loans	denominated	in
	
Euros	or	SONIA	Loans,	as	applicable,	then	outstanding.
(c)	
If	after	giving	effect	to	any	determination	under	
Section	2.18(b)
	and,	in	each	case,	to	any	borrowings	and
	
prepayments	or	repayments	of	Loans	occurring	on	the	applicable	Reset	Date,	(i)	the	aggregate	outstanding	Dollar	Amount	of	Loans
	
exceeds	the	total	Commitments	then	in	effect	by	5%	or	more	or	(ii)	the	aggregate	outstanding	Dollar	Amount	of	Loans	exceeds	the
	
total	Commitments	then	in	effect	for	a	period	of	ten	(10)	consecutive	Business	Days,	the	Borrower	shall,	within	five	(5)	Business
	
Days	after	receipt	of	notice	thereof	from	the	Administrative	Agent	setting	forth	such	calculation	in	reasonable	detail,	prepay	or
	
cause	to	be	prepaid	outstanding	Loans	in	the	case	of	
clauses	(i)
	or	
(ii)
	above	or	take	other	action	to	the	extent	necessary	to
	
eliminate	any	such	excess.
SECTION	2.19.		
Mitigation	Obligations;	Replacement	of	Lenders
.		(a)		If	any	Lender	requests	compensation	under
	
Section	2.14
,	or	if	the	Borrower	is	required	to	pay	any	Indemnified	Taxes,
	
58
	Other	Taxes	or	additional	amount	to	any	Lender	or	any	Governmental	Authority	for	the	account	of	any	Lender	pursuant	to	
Section
	
2.16
,	then	such	Lender	shall	use	reasonable	efforts	to	designate	a	different	lending	office	for	funding	or	booking	its	Loans
	
hereunder	or	to	assign	its	rights	and	obligations	hereunder	to	another	of	its	offices,	branches	or	affiliates,	if,	in	the	judgment	of
	
such	Lender,	such	designation	or	assignment	(i)	would	eliminate	or	reduce	amounts	payable	pursuant	to	
Section	2.14
	or	
2.16
,	as
	
the	case	may	be,	in	the	future	and	(ii)	would	not	subject	such	Lender	to	any	unreimbursed	cost	or	expense	and	would	not	otherwise
	
be	disadvantageous	to	such	Lender.		The	Borrower	hereby	agrees	to	pay	all	reasonable	and	documented	costs	and	expenses
	
incurred	by	any	Lender	in	connection	with	any	such	designation	or	assignment.	Each	Lender	will	notify	the	Borrower	promptly
	
upon	its	determination	that	an	event	that	is	reasonably	likely	to	result	in	the	Borrower	being	required	to	pay	any	additional	amount
	
pursuant	to	
Sections	2.14
	or	
2.16
	has	occurred,	but	failure	of	any	Lender	to	provide	such	notice	shall	not	affect	such	Lender’s
	
rights	or	the	Borrower’s	obligations	under	such	
Sections	2.14
	and	
2.16
.
(b)	
If	any	Lender	requests	compensation	under	
Section	2.14
,	or	if	the	Borrower	is	required	to	pay	any
	
Indemnified	Taxes,	Other	Taxes	or	additional	amount	to	any	Lender	or	any	Governmental	Authority	for	the	account	of	any	Lender
	
pursuant	to	
Section	2.16
,	or	if	any	Lender	becomes	a	Defaulting	Lender	or	a	Non-Consenting	Lender,	then	the	Borrower	may,	at	its
	
sole	expense	and	effort,	upon	notice	to	such	Lender	and	the	Administrative	Agent,	require	such	Lender	to	assign	and	delegate,
	
without	recourse	(in	accordance	with	and	subject	to	the	restrictions	contained	in	
Section	9.04
),	all	its	interests,	rights	and
	
obligations	under	this	Agreement	to	one	or	more	assignees	(which	may	be	one	or	more	Lenders	that	have	agreed	to	accept	such
	
assignment)	that	shall	assume	such	obligations;	
provided
	that	(i)	other	than	in	the	case	of	a	Defaulting	Lender	or	a	Non-Consenting
	
Lender,	the	Borrower	shall	have	received	the	prior	written	consent	of	the	Administrative	Agent	(and	if	a	Commitment	is	being
	
assigned,	the	Issuing	Banks)	to	any	Person	that	is	not	already	a	Lender,	which	consent	shall	not	unreasonably	be	withheld,	(ii)	such
	
Lender	shall	have	received	payment	of	an	amount	equal	to	the	outstanding	principal	of	its	Loans	and	participations	in	LC
	
Disbursements,	accrued	interest	thereon,	accrued	fees	and	all	other	amounts	payable	to	it	hereunder,	from	the	assignee	(to	the
	
extent	of	such	outstanding	principal	and	accrued	interest	and	fees)	or	the	Borrower	(in	the	case	of	all	other	amounts)	and	(iii)	in	the
	
case	of	any	such	assignment	resulting	from	a	claim	for	compensation	under	
Section	2.14
	or	payments	required	to	be	made	pursuant
	
to	
Section	2.16
,	such	assignment	will	result	in	a	reduction	in	such	compensation	or	payments.		A	Lender	shall	not	be	required	to
	
make	any	such	assignment	and	delegation	if,	prior	thereto,	as	a	result	of	a	waiver	by	such	Lender	or	otherwise,	the	circumstances
	
entitling	the	Borrower	to	require	such	assignment	and	delegation	cease	to	apply.
			
(c)	
Without	limiting	the	provisions	of	
Section	2.19(b)
,	in	the	event	of	illegality	resulting	solely	from	a	Lender’s
	
own	gross	negligence	as	a	result	of	which	such	Lender	is	unable	to	maintain	its	Commitments	or	make	any	Loans	required	to	be
	
made	by	it	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	(any	such	Lender,	a	“
Non-Funding	Lender
”),	then	such	Non-Funding	Lender	shall	use
	
reasonable	best	efforts	to	find	a	replacement	bank,	financial	institution,	trust,	fund	or	other	entity	(“
Replacement	Lender
”)	to
	
assume	such	Non-Funding	Lender’s	obligations	hereunder.	Upon	finding	such	Replacement	Lender,	and	upon	notice	to	the
	
Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent,	such	Non-Funding	Lender	shall	assign	and	delegate,	without	recourse	(in	accordance	with
	
and	subject	to	the	restrictions	contained	in	
Section	9.04
),	all	of	its	interests,	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement	to	such
	
Replacement	Lender,	which	shall	assume	such	obligations.
SECTION	2.20.		
Defaulting	Lenders
.		Notwithstanding	any	provision	of	this	Agreement	to	the	contrary,	if	any
	
Lender	becomes	a	Defaulting	Lender	hereunder,	then	the	following	provisions	shall	apply	for	so	long	as	such	Defaulting	Lender	is	a
	
Defaulting	Lender:
(a)	
commitment	fees	shall	cease	to	accrue	on	the	unused	Commitments	of	such	Defaulting	Lender	pursuant	to
	
Section	2.11
;
	
59
	(b)	
the	Commitment	and	Credit	Exposure	of	such	Defaulting	Lender	shall	be	disregarded	for	purposes	of	any
	
determination	of	whether	the	Required	Lenders	have	taken	or	may	take	any	action	hereunder	(including	any	consent	to	any
	
amendment	or	waiver	pursuant	to	
Section	9.02
);	
provided
	that	this	
clause	(b)
	shall	not	apply	in	the	case	of	any	waiver,	amendment
	
or	modification	requiring	the	consent	of	all	Lenders	or	each	Lender	affected	thereby;
	
(c)	
any	amount	payable	to	such	Defaulting	Lender	hereunder	(whether	on	account	of	principal,	interest,	fees	or
	
otherwise	and	including	any	amount	that	would	otherwise	be	payable	to	such	Defaulting	Lender)	shall,	in	lieu	of	being	distributed
	
to	such	Defaulting	Lender,	be	applied	in	the	following	order	of	priority:	(i)	to	the	payment	of	any	amounts	owing	by	such	Defaulting
	
Lender	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	(ii)	to	the	payment	on	a	pro	rata	basis	of	any	amounts	owing	by	such	Defaulting	Lender	to	any
	
Issuing	Bank	hereunder,	(iii)	to	cash	collateralize	the	Issuing	Banks’	LC	Exposure	with	respect	to	such	Defaulting	Lender	in
	
accordance	with	this	
Section	2.20
,	(iv)	to	the	funding	of	any	Loan	in	respect	of	which	such	Defaulting	Lender	has	failed	to	fund	its
	
portion	thereof	as	required	by	this	Agreement,	(v)	if	so	determined	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower,	to	be	held	in	a
	
deposit	account	and	released	pro	rata	in	order	to	(x)	satisfy	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	potential	future	funding	obligations	with
	
respect	to	Loans	under	this	Agreement	and	(y)	cash	collateralize	the	Issuing	Banks’	future	LC	Exposure	with	respect	to	such
	
Defaulting	Lender	with	respect	to	future	Letters	of	Credit	issued	under	this	Agreement,	in	accordance	with	this	
Section	2.20
,	(vi)	to
	
the	payment	of	any	amounts	owing	to	the	Lenders	or	the	Issuing	Banks	as	a	result	of	any	judgment	of	a	court	of	competent
	
jurisdiction	obtained	by	any	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	against	such	Defaulting	Lender	as	a	result	of	such	Defaulting	Lenders’	breach
	
of	its	obligations	under	this	Agreement,	(vii)	so	long	as	no	Default	or	Event	of	Default	exists,	to	the	payment	of	any	amounts	owing
	
to	the	Borrower	as	a	result	of	any	judgment	of	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	obtained	by	the	Borrower	against	such	Defaulting
	
Lender	as	a	result	of	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	breach	of	its	obligations	under	this	Agreement,	and	any	amounts	remaining	after
	
application	thereof	by	the	Administrative	Agent	as	specified	in	this	
paragraph	(c)
	shall	be	distributed	to	such	Defaulting	Lender	or
	
as	otherwise	directed	by	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction;	
provided
	that,	if	(x)	such	payment	is	a	payment	of	the	principal	amount
	
of	any	Loans	or	LC	Disbursements	in	respect	of	which	such	Defaulting	Lender	has	not	fully	funded	its	appropriate	share	and	(y)
	
such	Loans	were	made	or	the	related	Letters	of	Credit	were	issued	at	a	time	when	the	conditions	set	forth	in	
Article	IV
	were
	
satisfied	or	waived,	such	payment	shall	be	applied	solely	to	pay	the	Loans	of,	and	LC	Disbursements	owed	to,	all	non-Defaulting
	
Lenders	on	a	pro	rata	basis	prior	to	being	applied	to	the	payment	of	any	Loans	of,	or	LC	Disbursements	owed	to,	such	Defaulting
	
Lender	until	such	time	as	all	Loans	and	funded	and	unfunded	participations	in	the	Borrower’s	obligations	corresponding	to	such
	
Defaulting	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	are	held	by	the	Lenders	pro	rata	in	accordance	with	the	Commitments	without	giving	effect	to
	
clause	(d)
	below.		Any	payments,	prepayments	or	other	amounts	paid	or	payable	to	a	Defaulting	Lender	that	are	applied	(or	held)	to
	
pay	amounts	owed	by	a	Defaulting	Lender	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.20(c)
	shall	be	deemed	paid	to	and	redirected	by	such
	
Defaulting	Lender,	and	each	Lender	irrevocably	consents	hereto.
(d)	
if	any	LC	Exposure	exists	at	the	time	such	Lender	becomes	a	Defaulting	Lender	then:
(i)	all	or	any	part	of	the	LC	Exposure	of	such	Defaulting	Lender	shall	be	reallocated	among	the	non-Defaulting
	
Lenders	in	accordance	with	their	respective	Applicable	Percentages	but	only	to	the	extent	that	such	reallocation	does	not,
	
as	to	any	non-Defaulting	Lender,	cause	such	non-Defaulting	Lender’s	Credit	Exposure	to	exceed	its	Commitment;
60
	(ii)	if	the	reallocation	described	in	
clause	(i)	
above	cannot,	or	can	only	partially,	be	effected,	the	Borrower	shall
	
within	one	(1)	Business	Day	following	notice	by	the	Administrative	Agent	cash	collateralize	for	the	benefit	of	the	Issuing
	
Banks	only	the	Borrower’s	obligations	corresponding	to	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	(after	giving	effect	to	any
	
partial	reallocation	pursuant	to	
clause	(i)
	above)	in	accordance	with	the	procedures	set	forth	in	
Section	2.04(j)
	for	so	long
	
as	such	LC	Exposure	is	outstanding;
(iii)	if	the	Borrower	cash	collateralizes	any	portion	of	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	pursuant	to	
clause
	
(ii)
	above,	the	Borrower	shall	not	be	required	to	pay	any	fees	to	such	Defaulting	Lender	pursuant	to	
Section	2.11(b)
	with
	
respect	to	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	during	the	period	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	is	cash
	
collateralized;
(iv)	if	the	LC	Exposure	of	the	non-Defaulting	Lenders	is	reallocated	pursuant	to	
clause	(i)
	above,	then	the	fees
	
payable	to	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	
Sections	2.11(a)
	and	
(b)
	shall	be	adjusted	in	accordance	with	such	non-Defaulting
	
Lenders’	Applicable	Percentages;	and
(v)	if	all	or	any	portion	of	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	is	neither	reallocated	nor	cash	collateralized
	
pursuant	to	
clauses	(i)
	or	
(ii)
	above,	then,	without	prejudice	to	any	rights	or	remedies	of	any	Issuing	Bank	or	any	other
	
Lender	hereunder,	all	commitment	fees	that	otherwise	would	have	been	payable	to	such	Defaulting	Lender	(solely	with
	
respect	to	the	portion	of	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	Commitment	that	was	utilized	by	such	LC	Exposure)	and	letter	of	credit
	
fees	payable	under	
Section	2.11(b)
	with	respect	to	such	Defaulting	Lender’s	LC	Exposure	shall	be	payable	to	the	Issuing
	
Banks	until	and	to	the	extent	that	such	LC	Exposure	is	reallocated	and/or	cash	collateralized.
(e)	
so	long	as	such	Lender	is	a	Defaulting	Lender,	no	Issuing	Bank	shall	be	required	to	issue,	amend	or	increase
	
any	Letter	of	Credit,	unless	it	is	satisfied	that	the	related	exposure	and	the	Defaulting	Lender’s	then	outstanding	LC	Exposure	will
	
be	100%	covered	by	the	Commitments	of	the	non-Defaulting	Lenders	and/or	cash	collateral	will	be	provided	by	the	Borrower	in
	
accordance	with	
Section	2.20(d)
,	and	LC	Exposure	related	to	any	newly	issued	or	increased	Letter	of	Credit	shall	be	allocated
	
among	non-Defaulting	Lenders	in	a	manner	consistent	with	
Section	2.20(d)(i)
	(and	such	Defaulting	Lender	shall	not	participate
	
therein)
(f)	
the	Borrower	may,	upon	notice	to	a	Defaulting	Lender	and	the	Administrative	Agent	(which	shall	promptly
	
notify	the	Lenders	thereof),	terminate	the	Commitments	of	such	Defaulting	Lender	and	in	such	event	the	provisions	of	
Section
	
2.20(c)
	will	apply	to	all	amounts	thereafter	paid	by	the	Borrower	for	the	account	of	such	Defaulting	Lender	under	this	Agreement
	
(whether	on	account	of	principal,	interest,	fees,	indemnity	or	other	amounts);	
provided
	that	(i)	the	Borrower	may	not	terminate
	
such	Commitments	if	(A)	an	Event	of	Default	has	occurred	or	is	continuing	or	(B)	after	giving	effect	to	such	termination,	as
	
applicable,	(x)	the	Total	Credit	Exposure	would	exceed	the	total	Commitments	or	(y)	the	total	Loans	would	exceed	the	total
	
Commitments	and	(ii)	such	termination	shall	not	be	deemed	to	be	a	waiver	or	release	of	any	claim	the	Borrower,	the	Administrative
	
Agent	or	any	Lender	may	have	against	such	Defaulting	Lender.
(g)	
In	the	event	that	the	Administrative	Agent,	each	Issuing	Bank	and	the	Borrower	agree	that	a	Defaulting
	
Lender	has	adequately	remedied	all	matters	that	caused	such	Lender	to	be	a	Defaulting	Lender,	then,	with	the	consent	of	the
	
Borrower,	the	LC	Exposure	of	the	Lenders	shall	be	readjusted	to	reflect	the	inclusion	of	such	Lender’s	Commitment	and	on	such
	
date	such	Lender	shall	purchase	at	par	such	of	the	Loans	of	the	other	Lenders	or	take	such	other	actions	as	the	Administrative
	
Agent	shall	determine	to	be	necessary	in	order	for	such	Lender	to	hold	such	Loans	in	accordance	with	its	Applicable	Percentage
	
whereupon	such	Lender	will	cease	to	be	a	Defaulting	Lender;	
provided
	that	no
	
61
	adjustments	will	be	made	retroactively	with	respect	to	fees	accrued	or	payments	made	by	or	on	behalf	of	the	Borrower	while	that
	
Lender	was	a	Defaulting	Lender;	and	
provided
,	
further
,	that	except	to	the	extent	otherwise	expressly	agreed	by	the	affected
	
parties,	no	change	hereunder	from	Defaulting	Lender	to	Lender	will	constitute	a	waiver	or	release	of	any	claim	of	any	party
	
hereunder	arising	from	that	Lender’s	having	been	a	Defaulting	Lender.
The	rights	and	remedies	against	a	Defaulting	Lender	under	this	
Section	2.20
	are	in	addition	to	other	rights	and
	
remedies	that	the	Borrower	may	have	against	such	Defaulting	Lender.
	
SECTION	2.21.		
Benchmark	Replacement	Setting
.
		
	
(a)	
Benchmark	Replacement
.
		
(i)	Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	herein	or	in	any	other	Loan	Document,	upon	the
	
occurrence	of	a	Benchmark	Transition	Event	with	respect	to	any	Benchmark,	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower
	
may	amend	this	Agreement	to	replace	such	Benchmark	with	a	Benchmark	Replacement.		Any	such	amendment	with
	
respect	to	a	Benchmark	Transition	Event	will	become	effective	at	5:00	p.m.	(New	York	City	time)	on	the	fifth	(5
th
)	Business
	
Day	after	the	Administrative	Agent	has	posted	such	proposed	amendment	to	all	affected	Lenders	and	the	Borrower	so	long
	
as	the	Administrative	Agent	has	not	received,	by	such	time,	written	notice	of	objection	to	such	amendment	from	Lenders
	
comprising	the	Required	Lenders.		No	replacement	of	a	Benchmark	with	a	Benchmark	Replacement	pursuant	to	this
	
Section	2.21(a)
	will	occur	prior	to	the	applicable	Benchmark	Transition	Start	Date.
(ii)	No	Swap	Agreement	shall	constitute	a	“Loan	Document”	for	purposes	of	this	
Section	2.21
.
(b)	
Benchmark	Replacement	Conforming	Changes
.		In	connection	with	the	use,	administration,	adoption	or
	
implementation	of	a	Benchmark	Replacement,	the	Administrative	Agent	will	have	the	right	to	make	Conforming	Changes	from	time
	
to	time	and,	notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	herein	or	in	any	other	Loan	Document,	any	amendments	implementing	such
	
Conforming	Changes	will	become	effective	without	any	further	action	or	consent	of	any	other	party	to	this	Agreement	or	any	other
	
Loan	Document.
(c)	
Notices;	Standards	for	Decisions	and	Determinations
.		The	Administrative	Agent	will	promptly	notify	the	Borrower
	
and	the	Lenders	of	(i)	the	implementation	of	any	Benchmark	Replacement	and	(ii)	the	effectiveness	of	any	Conforming	Changes	in
	
connection	with	the	use,	administration,	adoption	or	implementation	of	a	Benchmark	Replacement.		The	Administrative	Agent	will
	
notify	the	Borrower	of	(x)	the	removal	or	reinstatement	of	any	tenor	of	a	Benchmark	pursuant	to	
Section	2.21(d)
	and	(y)	the
	
commencement	of	any	Benchmark	Unavailability	Period.		Any	determination,	decision	or	election	that	may	be	made	by	the
	
Administrative	Agent	or,	if	applicable,	any	Lender	(or	group	of	Lenders)	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.21
,	including	any	determination
	
with	respect	to	a	tenor,	rate	or	adjustment	or	of	the	occurrence	or	non-occurrence	of	an	event,	circumstance	or	date	and	any
	
decision	to	take	or	refrain	from	taking	any	action	or	any	selection,	will	be	conclusive	and	binding	absent	manifest	error	and	may	be
	
made	in	its	or	their	sole	discretion	and	without	consent	from	any	other	party	to	this	Agreement	or	any	other	Loan	Document,
	
except,	in	each	case,	as	expressly	required	pursuant	to	this	
Section	2.21
.
(d)	
Unavailability	of	Tenor	of	Benchmark
.		Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	herein	or	in	any	other	Loan
	
Document,	at	any	time	(including	in	connection	with	the	implementation	of	a	Benchmark	Replacement),	(i)	if	any	then-current
	
Benchmark	is	a	term	rate	(including	Term	SOFR	or	EURIBOR)	and
	
62
	either	(A)	any	tenor	for	such	Benchmark	is	not	displayed	on	a	screen	or	other	information	service	that	publishes	such	rate	from
	
time	to	time	as	selected	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	its	reasonable	discretion	or	(B)	the	regulatory	supervisor	for	the
	
administrator	of	such	Benchmark	has	provided	a	public	statement	or	publication	of	information	announcing	that	any	tenor	for	such
	
Benchmark	is	not	or	will	not	be	representative,	then	the	Administrative	Agent	may	modify	the	definition	of	“Interest	Period”	(or	any
	
similar	or	analogous	definition)	for	any	Benchmark	settings	at	or	after	such	time	to	remove	such	unavailable	or	non-representative
	
tenor	and	(ii)	if	a	tenor	that	was	removed	pursuant	to	
clause	(i)
	above	either	(A)	is	subsequently	displayed	on	a	screen	or
	
information	service	for	a	Benchmark	(including	a	Benchmark	Replacement)	or	(B)	is	not,	or	is	no	longer,	subject	to	an
	
announcement	that	it	is	not	or	will	not	be	representative	for	a	Benchmark	(including	a	Benchmark	Replacement),	then	the
	
Administrative	Agent	may	modify	the	definition	of	“Interest	Period”	(or	any	similar	or	analogous	definition)	for	all	Benchmark
	
settings	at	or	after	such	time	to	reinstate	such	previously	removed	tenor.
(e)	
Benchmark	Unavailability	Period
.		Upon	the	Borrower’s	receipt	of	notice	of	the	commencement	of	a	Benchmark
	
Unavailability	Period	with	respect	to	a	given	Benchmark,	(i)	the	Borrower	may	revoke	any	pending	request	for	Term	Benchmark
	
Borrowing	of,	conversion	to	or	continuation	of	Term	Benchmark	Loans,	or	a	SONIA	Borrowing	of,	conversion	to	or	continuation	of
	
SONIA	Loans,	in	each	case,	to	be	made,	converted	or	continued	during	any	Benchmark	Unavailability	Period	denominated	in	the
	
applicable	Agreed	Currency	and,	failing	that,	(A)	in	the	case	of	any	request	for	any	affected	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	in	Dollars,
	
if	applicable,	the	Borrower	will	be	deemed	to	have	converted	any	such	request	into	a	request	for	an	ABR	Borrowing	or	conversion
	
to	ABR	Loans	in	the	amount	specified	therein	and	(B)	in	the	case	of	any	request	for	any	affected	Term	Benchmark	Borrowing	or
	
SONIA	Borrower,	in	each	case,	in	a	Foreign	Currency,	if	applicable,	then	such	request	shall	be	ineffective	and	(ii)(A)	any
	
outstanding	affected	Term	Benchmark	Loans	denominated	in	Dollars,	if	applicable,	will	be	deemed	to	have	been	converted	into	ABR
	
Loans	immediately	and	(B)	any	outstanding	affected	Term	Benchmark	Loans	or	SONIA	Loans,	in	each	case,	denominated	in	a
	
Foreign	Currency,	at	the	Borrower’s	election,	shall	either	(I)	be	converted	into	ABR	Loans	denominated	in	Dollars	(in	an	amount
	
equal	to	the	equivalent	thereof	in	Dollars	of	such	Foreign	Currency)	immediately	or,	in	the	case	of	Term	Benchmark	Loans,	at	the
	
end	of	the	applicable	Interest	Period	or	(II)	be	prepaid	in	full	immediately	or,	in	the	case	of	Term	Benchmark	Loans,	at	the	end	of
	
the	applicable	Interest	Period;	
provided
	that	with	respect	to	any	SONIA	Loan,	if	no	election	is	made	by	the	Borrower	by	the	date
	
that	is	three	(3)	Business	Days	after	receipt	by	the	Borrower	of	such	notice,	the	Borrower	shall	be	deemed	to	have	elected	
clause	(I)
	
above;	
provided,
	
further
	that,	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	if	no	election	is	made	by	the	Borrower	by	the	earlier	of	
(x)
	
the	date	that	is	three	(3)	Business	Days	after	receipt	by	the	Borrower	of	such	notice	and	
(y)
	the	last	day	of	the	current	Interest
	
Period	for	the	applicable	Term	Benchmark	Loan,	the	Borrower	shall	be	deemed	to	have	elected	
clause	
(I)
	above.	Upon	any	such
	
prepayment	or	conversion,	the	Borrower	shall	also	pay	accrued	interest	on	the	amount	so	prepaid	or	converted,	together	with	any
	
additional	amounts	required	pursuant	to	
Section	2.15
.		During	a	Benchmark	Unavailability	Period	with	respect	to	any	Benchmark	or
	
at	any	time	that	a	tenor	for	any	then-current	Benchmark	is	not	an	Available	Tenor,	the	component	of	ABR	based	upon	the	then-
current	Benchmark	that	is	the	subject	of	such	Benchmark	Unavailability	Period	or	such	tenor	for	such	Benchmark,	as	applicable,
	
will	not	be	used	in	any	determination	of	ABR.
SECTION	2.22.		
Illegality
.		If	any	Lender	determines	that	any	law	has	made	it	unlawful,	or	that	any	Governmental
	
Authority	has	asserted	that	it	is	unlawful,	for	any	Lender	or	its	applicable	lending	office	to	make,	maintain	or	fund	Loans	whose
	
interest	is	determined	by	reference	to	SONIA,	Daily	Simple	SONIA,	the	EURIBOR	Rate,	the	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,	the	Term
	
SOFR	or	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	or	to	determine	or	charge	interest	based	upon	SONIA,	Daily	Simple	SONIA,	the	EURIBOR
	
Rate,	the	Adjusted	EURIBOR	Rate,	Term	SOFR	or	the	Adjusted	Term	SOFR	Rate,	or,	with	respect	to	any	Term	Benchmark	Loan,
	
any	Governmental	Authority	has	imposed	material	restrictions	on	the	authority	of	such	Lender	to	purchase	or	sell,	or	to	take
	
deposits	of,	any	applicable
	
63
	Agreed	Currency	in	the	applicable	offshore	interbank	market	for	the	applicable	Agreed	Currency,	then,	upon	notice	thereof	by	such
	
Lender	to	the	Borrower	(through	the	Administrative	Agent)	(an	“
Illegality	Notice
”),	(a)	any	obligation	of	such	Lender,	having
	
delivered	an	Illegality	Notice	to	the	Borrower,	to	make	SONIA	Loans	or	Term	Benchmark	Loans,	as	applicable,	shall	be	suspended,
	
and	any	such	Loan	shall	be	made	as	an	ABR	Loan	denominated	in	Dollars	(in	an	amount	equal	to	the	Dollar	Amount	of	such	Foreign
	
Currency)	and	(b)	if	necessary	to	avoid	such	illegality,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	compute	the	ABR	without	reference	to	
clause
	
(c)
	of	the	definition	of	“Alternate	Base	Rate”,	in	each	case	until	such	affected	Lender	notifies	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the
	
Borrower	that	the	circumstances	giving	rise	to	such	determination	no	longer	exist.		Upon	receipt	of	an	Illegality	Notice,	the
	
Borrower	shall,	if	necessary	to	avoid	such	illegality,	upon	demand	from	such	affected	Lender	(with	a	copy	to	the	Administrative
	
Agent),	prepay	or,	if	applicable,	(i)	convert	all	Term	Benchmark	Loans	of	such	Lender	denominated	in	Dollars	to	ABR	Loans	or	(ii)
	
convert	all	SONIA	Loans	or	Term	Benchmark	Loans	of	such	Lender	denominated	in	an	affected	Foreign	Currency	to	ABR	Loans
	
denominated	in	Dollars	(in	an	amount	equal	to	the	Dollar	Amount	of	such	Foreign	Currency)	(in	each	case,	if	necessary	to	avoid
	
such	illegality,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	compute	the	ABR	without	reference	to	
clause	(c)
	of	the	definition	of	“Alternate	Base
	
Rate”),	(A)	with	respect	to	Term	Benchmark	Loans,	on	the	Interest	Payment	Date	therefor,	if	all	affected	Lenders	may	lawfully
	
continue	to	maintain	such	Term	Benchmark	Loans	to	such	day,	or	immediately,	if	any	Lender	may	not	lawfully	continue	to	maintain
	
such	Term	Benchmark	Loans	to	such	day	or	(B)	with	respect	to	SONIA	Loans,	immediately.		Upon	any	such	prepayment	or
	
conversion,	the	Borrower	shall	also	pay	accrued	interest	on	the	amount	so	prepaid	or	converted,	together	with	any	additional
	
amounts	required	pursuant	to	
Section	2.15
.
Article	III
Representations	and	Warranties
The	Borrower	represents	and	warrants	to	the	Lenders	as	of	the	Effective	Date	and	thereafter	as	of	each	date
	
required	by	
Section	4.02
	that:
	
SECTION	3.01.		
Organization;	Powers
.		Each	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	is	duly	organized,
	
validly	existing	and	in	good	standing	under	the	laws	of	the	jurisdiction	of	its	organization	or	formation,	has	all	requisite	power	and
	
authority	to	carry	on	its	business	as	now	conducted	and	is	qualified	to	do	business	in,	and	is	in	good	standing	in,	every	jurisdiction
	
where	such	qualification	is	required,	except,	in	each	case,	where	the	failure	to	be	so	qualified	and/or	in	good	standing,	individually
	
or	in	the	aggregate,	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
		
SECTION	3.02.		
Authorization;	Enforceability
.		The	Transactions	are	within	each	Loan	Party’s	corporate	powers
	
and	have	been	duly	authorized	by	all	necessary	corporate	and,	if	required,	stockholder	action.		This	Agreement	has	been	duly
	
executed	and	delivered	by	the	Borrower	and	constitutes	a	legal,	valid	and	binding	obligation	of	the	Borrower,	enforceable	in
	
accordance	with	its	terms,	subject	to	applicable	bankruptcy,	insolvency,	reorganization,	moratorium	or	other	laws	affecting
	
creditors’	rights	generally	and	subject	to	general	principles	of	equity,	regardless	of	whether	considered	in	a	proceeding	in	equity	or
	
at	law.
SECTION	3.03.		
Governmental	Approvals;	No	Conflicts
.		The	Transactions	(a)	do	not	require	any	consent	or
	
approval	of,	registration	or	filing	with,	or	any	other	action	by,	any	Governmental	Authority,	except	such	as	have	been	obtained	or
	
made	and	are	in	full	force	and	effect,	and	except	where	such	failure	to	obtain	or	make	such	consent,	approval,	registration,	filing	or
	
other	action	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect,	(b)	will	not	violate	any	applicable	material	law	or
	
material	regulation	or	any	material	order	of	any	Governmental	Authority,	(c)	will	not	violate	the	charter,	by-laws	or	equivalent
	
organizational	documents	of	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted
	
64
	Subsidiaries	that	is	a	Significant	Subsidiary,	(d)	will	not	violate	or	result	in	a	default	under	any	indenture,	agreement	or	other
	
instrument	binding	upon	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	or	its	assets,	or	give	rise	to	a	right	thereunder	to	require
	
any	payment	to	be	made	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries,	except	where	any	such	violations	or	defaults	would
	
not,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	reasonably	be	expected	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect	and	(e)	will	not	result	in	the
	
creation	or	imposition	of	any	Lien	on	any	asset	of	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	that	is	a	Significant	Subsidiary.
SECTION	3.04.		
Financial	Statements;	Financial	Condition;	No	Material	Adverse	Change
.		(a)		The	Borrower	has
	
heretofore	furnished	to	the	Lenders	its	consolidated	balance	sheet	and	statements	of	income,	stockholders	equity	and	cash	flows	as
	
of	and	for	the	fiscal	year	ended	December	31,	2021,	reported	on	by	PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP,	independent	public	accountants.
		
Such	financial	statements	present	fairly,	in	all	material	respects,	the	financial	position	and	results	of	operations	and	cash	flows	of
	
the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	as	of	such	dates	and	for	such	periods	in	accordance	with	GAAP.
(b)	
On	the	Effective	Date,	(i)	the	sum	of	the	fair	value	of	the	assets,	at	a	fair	valuation,	of	the	Borrower	and	its
	
Subsidiaries	(taken	as	a	whole)	will	exceed	their	respective	debts,	(ii)	the	sum	of	the	present	fair	saleable	value	of	the	assets	of	the
	
Borrower	and	its	Subsidiaries	(taken	as	a	whole)	will	exceed	their	respective	debts,	(iii)	the	Borrower	and	its	Subsidiaries	(taken	as
	
a	whole)	have	not	incurred	and	do	not	intend	to	incur,	and	do	not	believe	that	they	will	incur,	debts	beyond	their	ability	to	pay	such
	
debts	as	such	debts	mature	and	(iv)	the	Borrower	and	its	Subsidiaries	(taken	as	a	whole)	will	have	sufficient	capital	with	which	to
	
conduct	their	respective	businesses.		For	purposes	of	this	
Section	3.04(b)
,	“debt”	means	any	liability	on	a	claim,	and	“claim”	means
	
right	to	payment,	whether	or	not	such	a	right	is	reduced	to	judgment,	liquidated,	unliquidated,	fixed,	contingent,	matured,
	
unmatured,	disputed,	undisputed,	legal,	equitable,	secured,	or	unsecured.		The	amount	of	contingent	liabilities	at	any	time	shall	be
	
computed	as	the	amount	that,	in	the	light	of	all	the	facts	and	circumstances	available	at	such	time,	represents	the	amount	that	can
	
reasonably	be	expected	to	become	an	actual	or	matured	liability.
(c)	
Since	December	31,	2021,	there	has	been	no	event,	development	or	circumstance	that	has	had	or	would
	
reasonably	be	expected	to,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
SECTION	3.05.		
Litigation	and	Environmental	Matters
.		(a)		Other	than	the	Disclosed	Matters,	there	are	no
	
actions,	suits	or	proceedings	by	or	before	any	arbitrator	or	Governmental	Authority	pending	against	or,	to	the	knowledge	of	the
	
Borrower,	threatened	against	or	affecting	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	(i)	as	to	which	there	is	a	reasonable
	
possibility	of	an	adverse	determination	and	that,	if	adversely	determined,	would	reasonably	be	expected,	individually	or	in	the
	
aggregate,	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect	or	(ii)	that	involve	this	Agreement	or	the	Transactions.
(b)	
Neither	the	Borrower	nor	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	(i)	has	failed	to	comply	with	any	Environmental
	
Law	or	to	obtain,	maintain	or	comply	with	any	permit,	license	or	other	approval	required	under	any	Environmental	Law,	(ii)	has
	
become	subject	to	any	Environmental	Liability,	(iii)	has	received	notice	of	any	claim	with	respect	to	any	Environmental	Liability	or
	
(iv)	knows	of	any	basis	for	any	Environmental	Liability	except,	in	each	case,	for	the	Disclosed	Matters	and	with	respect	to	any	other
	
matters	that,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
SECTION	3.06.		
Compliance	with	Laws	and	Agreements
.		Each	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	is
	
in	compliance	with	all	laws,	regulations	and	orders	of	any	Governmental	Authority	applicable	to	it	or	its	property	and	all	indentures,
	
agreements	and	other	instruments	binding
	
65
	upon	it	or	its	property,	except	(a)	in	such	instances	where	any	alleged	non-compliance	is	being	contested	in	good	faith	by
	
appropriate	proceedings	diligently	conducted	or	(b)	where	the	failure	to	do	so,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	would	not
	
reasonably	be	expected	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.		No	Default	has	occurred	and	is	continuing.
SECTION	3.07.		
Investment	Company	Status
.		The	Borrower	is	not	an	“investment	company”	as	defined	in	the
	
Investment	Company	Act	of	1940.
SECTION	3.08.		
Taxes
.		Each	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	has	timely	filed	or	caused	to	be	filed
	
all	material	Tax	returns	and	reports	required	to	have	been	filed	and	has	paid	or	caused	to	be	paid	all	material	Taxes	required	to
	
have	been	paid	by	it,	except	(a)	Taxes	that	are	being	contested	in	good	faith	by	appropriate	proceedings	and	for	which	the	Borrower
	
or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary,	as	applicable,	has	set	aside	on	its	books	adequate	reserves	with	respect	thereto	in	accordance	with
	
GAAP	or	(b)	to	the	extent	that	the	failure	to	do	so	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
SECTION	3.09.		
ERISA
.		No	ERISA	Event	has	occurred	or	is	reasonably	expected	to	occur	that,	when	taken
	
together	with	all	other	such	ERISA	Events	for	which	liability	is	reasonably	expected	to	occur,	would	reasonably	be	expected	to,
	
individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.		If	all	of	the	Plans	were	terminated	(disregarding	any	Plans
	
with	surpluses),	the	unfunded	liabilities	with	respect	to	the	Plans,	individually	or,	in	the	event	there	is	more	than	one	Plan,	in	the
	
aggregate,	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
SECTION	3.10.		
Disclosure
.		(a)	No	written	information	furnished	(other	than	projected	financial	information)	by
	
or	on	behalf	of	the	Borrower	to	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender	in	connection	with	the	negotiation	of	this	Agreement	or
	
delivered	hereunder	(as	modified	or	supplemented	by	other	information	so	furnished)	when	taken	as	a	whole	and	together	with	the
	
Borrower’s	filings	with	the	SEC,	contains	any	untrue	statement	of	a	material	fact	or	omits	to	state	any	material	fact	necessary	in
	
order	to	make	the	statements	contained	therein	taken	as	a	whole,	in	the	light	of	the	circumstances	under	which	they	were	made,
	
not	materially	misleading;	
provided
	that	with	respect	to	projected	financial	information,	the	Borrower	represents	only	that	such
	
information	was	prepared	in	good	faith	based	upon	assumptions	believed	to	be	reasonable	at	the	time	(it	being	understood	that	the
	
actual	results	may	vary	from	the	projected	financial	information).
(b)		As	of	the	Effective	Date,	to	the	knowledge	of	the	Borrower,	the	information	included	in	the	Beneficial
	
Ownership	Certification	provided	on	or	prior	to	the	Effective	Date	to	any	Lender	in	connection	with	this	Agreement	is	true	and
	
correct	in	all	respects.
SECTION	3.11.		
Federal	Regulations
.		No	part	of	the	proceeds	of	any	Loans,	and	no	other	extensions	of	credit
	
hereunder,	will	be	used	for	“buying”	or	“carrying”	any	“margin	stock”	within	the	respective	meanings	of	each	of	the	quoted	terms
	
under	Regulation	U	as	now	and	from	time	to	time	hereafter	in	effect	or	for	any	purpose	that	violates	the	provisions	of	the
	
Regulations	of	the	Board.		If	requested	by	any	Lender	or	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	Borrower	will	furnish	to	the	Administrative
	
Agent	and	each	Lender	a	statement	to	the	foregoing	effect	in	conformity	with	the	requirements	of	FR	Form	G-3	or	FR	Form	U-1,	as
	
applicable,	referred	to	in	Regulation	U.
SECTION	3.12.		
Use	of	Proceeds
.		The	proceeds	of	the	Loans	and	Letters	of	Credit	shall	be	used	for	general
	
corporate	purposes	or	for	any	other	purpose	not	prohibited	by	this	Agreement;	
provided
	that	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries	shall	not	use,	loan,	contribute,	or	otherwise	make	such	proceeds	available,	directly	or	knowingly	indirectly,	(i)	in
	
furtherance	of	an	offer,	payment,	promise	to	pay	or	authorization	of	the	payment	or	giving	of	money,	or	anything	else	of	value,	to
	
any
	
66
	Person	in	violation	of	any	Anti-Corruption	Laws,	(ii)	for	the	purpose	of	funding,	financing	or	facilitating	any	activities,	business	or
	
transaction	of	or	with	any	Sanctioned	Person,	or	in	any	Sanctioned	Country,	in	each	case,	to	the	extent	prohibited	for	a	Person
	
required	to	comply	with	Sanctions	or	(iii)	in	any	other	manner	that	would	cause	any	party	to	this	Agreement	to	be	in	violation	of	any
	
Anti-Corruption	Laws,	any	Anti-Money	Laundering	Laws	or	Sanctions.
SECTION	3.13.		
Anti-Corruption	Laws
.		Since	January	1,	2018,	the	Borrower	has	implemented,	maintains	in	effect
	
and	enforces	policies	and	procedures	reasonably	designed	to	promote	compliance	by	the	Borrower,	its	Subsidiaries	and	their
	
respective	directors,	officers,	and,	to	its	knowledge,	its	employees,	agents	and	Affiliates	with	Anti-Corruption	Laws.
(a)	
The	Borrower,	its	Subsidiaries	and	their	respective	directors,	officers,	and,	to	its	knowledge,	its	employees,
	
agents	and	Affiliates	are	in	compliance	with	Anti-Corruption	Laws	and	applicable	Anti-Money	Laundering	Laws	and	have	not
	
engaged,	since	January	1,	2018,	in	(i)	using	any	funds	for	any	unlawful	contribution,	gift,	entertainment	or	other	unlawful	expense
	
relating	to	political	activity,	(ii)	making	or	taking	an	unlawful	act	in	furtherance	of	an	offer,	promise	or	authorization	of	any	direct
	
or	indirect	unlawful	payment	or	benefit	to	any	foreign	or	domestic	government	or	regulatory	official	or	employee,	including	of	any
	
government-owned	or	-controlled	entity	or	of	a	public	international	organization,	or	any	person	acting	for	or	on	behalf	of	any	of	the
	
foregoing,	or	any	political	party	or	party	official	or	candidate	for	political	office	or	(iii)	making,	offering,	agreeing,	requesting	or
	
taking	an	act	in	furtherance	of	any	unlawful	bribe	or	other	unlawful	benefit,	including	any	rebate,	payoff,	influence	payment,
	
kickback	or	other	unlawful	or	improper	payment	or	benefit,	in	each	case	of	
sub-clauses	(i)
,	
(ii)
	and	
(iii)
	of	this	
clause	(a)
,	in	violation
	
of	the	Anti-Corruption	Laws.
	
SECTION	3.14.		
Sanctions
.		The	Borrower	has	implemented,	maintains	in	effect	and	enforces	policies	and
	
procedures	reasonably	designed	to	ensure	compliance	by	the	Borrower,	its	Subsidiaries	and	their	respective	directors,	officers,
	
and,	to	its	knowledge,	employees,	agents	or	Affiliates	with	applicable	Sanctions.
(a)	
None	of	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries	or	any	of	their	respective	directors,	officers	or,	to	its
	
knowledge,	employees,	agents	or	Affiliates	that	will	act	in	any	capacity	in	connection	with	or	benefit	from	the	credit	facility
	
established	hereby,	is	a	Sanctioned	Person.
	
(b)	
The	Borrower,	its	Subsidiaries	and	their	respective	directors,	officers,	employees	and,	to	its	knowledge,
	
agents	and	Affiliates	are	(i)	in	compliance	with	applicable	Sanctions,	(ii)	not	engaged	in,	directly	or	knowingly	indirectly,	any
	
dealings	or	transactions	with	or	benefitting	any	person	or	entity	that	at	the	time	of	the	dealing	or	transaction	is	or	was	a	Sanctioned
	
Person	or	in,	with,	or	benefiting	any	Sanctioned	Country,	in	each	case,	to	the	extent	prohibited	for	a	Person	required	to	comply	with
	
Sanctions	at	the	time	of	the	dealing	or	transaction	and	(iii)	not	the	target	of	a	governmental	investigation	relating	to	Sanctions	nor
	
have	received	notice	of,	or	otherwise	become	aware	of,	any	claim,	action,	suit,	or	proceeding,	or	investigation,	or	inquiry,	formal	or
	
informal,	against	it	with	respect	to	Sanctions.
SECTION	3.15.		
Affected	Financial	Institutions
.	The	Borrower	is	not	an	Affected	Financial	Institution.
SECTION	3.16.		
Plan	Assets;	Prohibited	Transactions
.	The	Borrower	is	not	an	entity	deemed	to	hold	“plan	assets”
	
(within	the	meaning	of	the	Plan	Asset	Regulations).		Neither	the	execution,	delivery	or	performance	of	the	transactions
	
contemplated	under	this	Agreement,	including	the	making	of	any	Loan	hereunder,	will	give	rise	to	a	non-exempt	prohibited
	
transaction	under	Section	406	of	ERISA	or
	
67
	Section	4975	of	the	Code,	assuming	no	portion	of	the	Loan	is	or	will	be	funded	(initially	or	through	participation,	assignment,
	
transfer	or	securitization)	with	plan	assets	of	any	Benefit	Plan.
SECTION	3.17.		
Employment	and	Labor	Relations
.	As	of	the	Effective	Date,	neither	the	Borrower	nor	any	of	its
	
Restricted	Subsidiaries	is	a	party	to	any	collective	bargaining	agreement	or	other	labor	contract	applicable	to	the	Borrower’s	or	any
	
of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries’	employees	other	than	in	jurisdictions	where	regulations	mandate	employee	participation	in	industrial
	
collective	bargaining	agreements	and	works	councils	with	certain	consultation	(including	potential	approval,	co-determination	and
	
information)	rights	with	respect	to	the	relevant	entity’s	operations.		As	of	the	Effective	Date,	except	as	would	not	reasonably	be
	
expected,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	to	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect	(i)	there	are	no	strikes,	slowdowns,	lock-outs,	work
	
stoppages	or,	to	the	knowledge	of	any	Responsible	Officer	of	the	Borrower,	threatened	in	writing	against	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its
	
Restricted	Subsidiaries,	(ii)	since	January	1,	2020,	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	have	been	in	compliance	with	the
	
US	federal	Fair	Labor	Standards	Act	of	1938,	as	amended,	or	any	other	applicable	laws,	regulations	or	legal	requirements	dealing
	
with	wage	and	hour	matters	with	respect	to	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	and	(iii)	any	individual	who	performs
	
services	for	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	who	is	not	treated	as	an	employee	of	the	Borrower	or	such	Restricted
	
Subsidiary	for	any	purpose,	including	income	tax,	withholding	and	remittances	purposes,	has	been	properly	classified	as	a	non-
employee	contractor.
SECTION	3.18.		
Intellectual	Property
.	Each	of	the	Borrower	and	each	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	(i)	owns	or	has
	
the	right	to	use	all	patents,	trademarks,	permits,	domain	names,	service	marks,	trade	names,	copyrights,	licenses,	franchises,
	
inventions,	trade	secrets,	proprietary	information	and	know-how	of	any	type,	whether	or	not	written	(including,	but	not	limited	to,
	
rights	in	computer	programs	and	databases),	formulas,	and	other	intellectual	property	rights	(collectively,	“
Intellectual	Property
”),
	
and	(ii)	has	obtained	assignments	of	all	leases,	licenses	and	other	rights	of	whatever	nature,	in	each	case	that	are	reasonably
	
necessary	for	the	conduct	of	the	business	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries,	taken	as	a	whole,	and	without	any	known
	
conflict	with	the	rights	of	others,	except	where	the	failure	to	own	such	Intellectual	Property	or	obtain	waivers	of	such	conflicts
	
would	not,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
Article	IV
Conditions
SECTION	4.01.		
Effective	Date
.		The	obligations	of	the	Lenders	to	make	Loans	and	of	the	Issuing	Banks	to	issue
	
Letters	of	Credit	hereunder	shall	not	become	effective	until	the	first	date	on	which	each	of	the	following	conditions	is	satisfied	(or
	
waived	in	accordance	with	
Section	9.02
):
(a)
The	Administrative	Agent	(or	its	counsel)	shall	have	received	from	each	party	hereto	either	(i)	a
	
counterpart	of	this	Agreement	signed	on	behalf	of	such	party	or	(ii)	written	evidence	satisfactory	to	the	Administrative
	
Agent	(which	may	include	any	Electronic	Signatures	transmitted	by	telecopy,	emailed	pdf.	or	any	other	electronic	means
	
that	reproduces	an	image	of	an	actual	executed	signature	page	of	this	Agreement)	that	such	party	has	signed	a
	
counterpart	of	this	Agreement.
(b)
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	customary	favorable	written	opinions	(addressed	to	the
	
Administrative	Agent	and	the	Lenders	and	dated	the	Effective	Date)	of	Skadden,	Arps,	Slate,	Meagher	&	Flom	LLP,
	
counsel	for	the	Loan	Parties.		The	Borrower	hereby	requests	such	counsel	to	deliver	such	opinions.
68
	(c)
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	such	documents	and	certificates	as	the	Administrative	Agent
	
or	its	counsel	may	reasonably	request	relating	to	the	organization,	existence	and	good	standing	of	the	Loan	Parties,	the
	
authorization	of	the	Transactions	and	any	other	legal	matters	relating	to	the	Loan	Parties,	this	Agreement	or	the
	
Transactions,	all	in	form	and	substance	reasonably	satisfactory	to	the	Administrative	Agent	and	its	counsel.
(d)
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	a	certificate,	dated	the	Effective	Date	and	signed	by	an
	
Authorized	Officer	of	the	Borrower,	certifying	that,	on	and	as	of	the	Effective	Date,	(i)	the	representations	and	warranties
	
contained	in	
Article	III
	and	in	each	other	Loan	Document	are	true	and	correct	in	all	material	respects	on	and	as	of	the
	
Effective	Date,	except	to	the	extent	such	representations	and	warranties	specifically	refer	to	an	earlier	date,	in	which	case
	
they	shall	be	true	and	correct	in	all	material	respects	as	of	such	earlier	date,	(ii)	no	Default	or	Event	of	Default	exists,	or
	
would	result	from	the	Transactions	or	from	the	application	of	the	proceeds	thereof	and	(iii)	compliance	with	
Section	6.01
	
hereof.
(e)
The	Administrative	Agent,	the	Lenders	and	the	Lead	Arrangers	shall	have	received	all	fees	and	other
	
amounts	due	and	payable	on	or	prior	to	the	Effective	Date	for	which	invoices	have	been	presented	at	least	one	(1)	Business
	
Day	prior	to	the	Effective	Date,	including,	to	the	extent	invoiced,	reimbursement	or	payment	of	all	reasonable	and
	
documented	out‑of‑pocket	expenses	required	to	be	reimbursed	or	paid	by	the	Borrower	hereunder.
	
(f)
(i)	The	Borrower	shall	have	paid	in	full	all	of	its	obligations	under	the	Existing	Credit	Agreement,	(ii)	the
	
Existing	Credit	Agreement	(and	the	commitments	thereunder)	shall	have	terminated	and	be	of	no	further	force	and	effect,
	
(iii)	all	guarantees	and	security	interests	granted	in	connection	with	the	Existing	Credit	Agreement	shall	have	been
	
terminated	and	released	(or	arrangements	reasonably	satisfactory	to	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	been	made	with
	
respect	to	such	termination	and	release)	(each	of	the	foregoing	
clauses	(i)
,	
(ii)
	and	
(iii)
,	collectively,	the	“
Payoff
”)	and	(iv)
	
the	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	evidence	satisfactory	to	it	that	the	Payoff	has	occurred	or	shall	occur
	
substantially	simultaneously	with	the	Effective	Date.
	
(g)
(i)	The	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	all	documentation	and	other	information	reasonably
	
requested	by	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender	pursuant	to	applicable	“know	your	customer”	and	Anti-Money
	
Laundering	Laws,	including	the	Act;	
provided
	that	such	documentation	has	been	requested	at	least	five	(5)	Business	Days
	
prior	to	the	Effective	Date	and	(ii)	each	Lender	that	has	reasonably	requested	a	Beneficial	Ownership	Certification	shall,	to
	
the	extent	the	Borrower	qualifies	as	a	“legal	entity	customer”	under	the	Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation,	have	received	a
	
Beneficial	Ownership	Certification	(
provided
	that	upon	the	execution	and	delivery	by	such	Lender	of	its	signature	page	to
	
this	Agreement,	the	condition	set	forth	in	this	
clause	(ii)
	shall	be	deemed	to	be	satisfied).
(h)
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	the	audited	consolidated	financial	statements	and	unaudited
	
interim	financial	statements	of	the	Borrower	for	the	three	most	recent	fiscal	years	and	the	most	recent	interim	period,	as
	
applicable,	ended	prior	to	the	Effective	Date	as	to	which	such	financial	statements	are	available,	in	each	case,	which	will
	
be	deemed	delivered	to	the	Administrative	Agent	when	filed	by	the	Borrower	with	the	SEC	on	Form	10-K	or	Form	10-Q,	as
	
applicable.
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	notify	the	Borrower	and	the	Lenders	of	the	Effective	Date,	and	such	notice	shall	be	conclusive	and
	
binding.		Notwithstanding	the	foregoing,	the	obligations	of	the	Lenders	to	make	Loans	and	of	the	Issuing	Banks	to	issue	Letters	of
	
Credit	hereunder	shall	not	become	effective	unless	each	of	the	foregoing	conditions	is	satisfied	(or	waived	pursuant	to	
Section	9.02
)
	
at	or	prior	to	3:00
	
69
	p.m.,	New	York	City	time,	on	March	31,	2023	(and	in	the	event	such	conditions	are	not	so	satisfied	or	waived,	the	Commitments
	
shall	terminate	at	such	time).		For	purposes	of	determining	compliance	with	the	conditions	specified	in	this	
Section	4.01
,	each	of
	
the	Lenders	and	Issuing	Banks	party	hereto	as	of	the	Effective	Date	shall	be	deemed	to	have	consented	to,	approved	or	accepted	or
	
to	be	satisfied	with,	each	document	or	other	matter	required	hereunder	to	be	consented	to	or	approved	by	or	acceptable	or
	
satisfactory	to	such	party	unless	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	received	written	notice	from	such	party	prior	to	the	Effective
	
Date	specifying	its	objection	thereto.
SECTION	4.02.		
Each	Credit	Event
.		The	obligation	of	each	Lender	to	make	a	Loan	under	the	Facility	on	the
	
occasion	of	any	Borrowing	(other	than	any	conversion	to	or	continuation	of	any	Loan),	and	of	each	Issuing	Bank	to	issue,	amend	to
	
increase	the	amount	thereof,	renew	or	extend	any	Letter	of	Credit,	is	subject	to	the	satisfaction	of	the	following	conditions:
(a)
The	representations	and	warranties	of	the	Borrower	set	forth	in	this	Agreement	(except	the	representations
	
set	forth	in	
Sections	3.04(c)
	and	
3.05
)	shall	be	true	and	correct	in	all	material	respects	on	and	as	of	the	date	of	such
	
Borrowing;	
provided
	that	any	representation	or
	warranty	that	is	qualified	as	to	“materiality”,	“Material	Adverse	Effect”	or
	
similar	language	shall	be	true	and	correct	(except	the	representations	set	forth	in	
Sections	3.04(c)
	and	
3.05
)	as	so	qualified
	
on	such	respective	dates.
(b)
	
At	the	time	of	and	immediately	after	giving	effect	to	such	Borrowing	or	the	issuance,	amendment,
	
renewal	or	extension	of	such	Letter	of	Credit,	as	applicable,	no	Default	or	Event	of	Default	shall	have	occurred	and	be
	
continuing.
Each	Borrowing	(other	than	any	conversion	or	continuation	of	any	Loan)	and	each	issuance,	amendment	to	increase	the	amount
	
thereof,	renewal	or	extension	of	a	Letter	of	Credit	shall	be	deemed	to	constitute	a	representation	and	warranty	by	the	Borrower	on
	
the	date	thereof	as	to	the	matters	specified	in	
Sections	4.02(a)
	and	
(b)
.
		
Notwithstanding	the	foregoing,	these	conditions	shall	not	apply	to	any	borrowing	of	an	ABR	Loan	under	the	Facility	in	connection
	
with	the	repayment	of	a	Loan	under	
Section	2.13
.
		
Article	V
Affirmative	Covenants
Until	the	Commitments	have	expired	or	been	terminated	and	the	principal	of	and	interest	on	each	Loan	and	all
	
fees	payable	hereunder	shall	have	been	paid	in	full,	and	all	Letters	of	Credit	shall	have	expired	or	terminated	(other	than	those	for
	
which	accommodations	reasonably	acceptable	to	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	have	been	made)	without	any	pending	draw,	and	all
	
LC	Disbursements	shall	have	been	reimbursed,	the	Borrower	covenants	and	agrees	with	the	Lenders	that:
SECTION	5.01.		
Financial	Statements;	Other	Information
.		The	Borrower	will	furnish	to	the	Administrative	Agent:
(a)	
within	ninety	(90)	days	after	the	end	of	each	fiscal	year	of	the	Borrower,	its	audited	consolidated	balance
	
sheet	and	related	statements	of	operations,	stockholders’	equity	and	cash	flows	as	of	the	end	of	and	for	such	year,	setting	forth	in
	
each	case	in	comparative	form	the	figures	for	the	previous	fiscal	year,	all	reported	on	by	PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP	or	other
	
independent	public	accountants	of	recognized	national	standing	(without	a	“going	concern”	or	like	qualification	or	exception	and
	
without	any	qualification	or	exception	as	to	the	scope	of	such	audit)	to	the	effect	that	such	consolidated	financial	statements
	
present	fairly	in	all	material	respects	the	financial	condition	and	results	of	operations	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated
	
Subsidiaries	on	a	consolidated	basis	in	accordance	with	GAAP;
70
	(b)	
within	sixty	(60)	days	after	the	end	of	each	of	the	first	three	fiscal	quarters	of	each	fiscal	year	of	the
	
Borrower,	its	consolidated	balance	sheet	and	related	statements	of	operations	and	stockholders’	equity	as	of	the	end	of	and	for	such
	
fiscal	quarter	and	the	then	elapsed	portion	of	the	fiscal	year,	setting	forth	in	each	case	in	comparative	form	the	figures	for	the
	
corresponding	period	or	periods	of	(or,	in	the	case	of	the	balance	sheet,	as	of	the	end	of)	the	previous	fiscal	year,	all	certified	by	one
	
of	its	Authorized	Officers	as	presenting	fairly	in	all	material	respects	the	financial	condition	and	results	of	operations	of	the
	
Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	on	a	consolidated	basis	in	accordance	with	GAAP,	subject	to	normal	year-end	audit
	
adjustments	and	the	absence	of	footnotes;
(c)	
concurrently	with	any	delivery	of	financial	statements	under	
clauses	(a)
	or	
(b)
	above,	a	certificate	of	an
	
Authorized	Officer	of	the	Borrower,	substantially	in	the	form	of	
Exhibit	B
	hereto	(or	such	other	form	as	may	be	reasonably
	
acceptable	to	the	Administrative	Agent),	(x)	certifying	as	to	whether	a	Default	has	occurred	and,	if	a	Default	has	occurred,
	
specifying	the	details	thereof	and	any	action	taken	or	proposed	to	be	taken	with	respect	thereto	and	(y)	setting	forth	reasonably
	
detailed	information	demonstrating	compliance	with	
Section	6.01
;	and
	
(d)	
within	a	reasonable	time	following	any	reasonable	written	request	therefor	by	the	Administrative	Agent	or
	
any	Lender,	(x)	such	other	information	regarding	the	operations,	business	affairs	and	financial	condition	of	the	Borrower	or	any
	
Restricted	Subsidiary,	or	compliance	with	the	terms	of	this	Agreement	and	(y)	information	and	documentation	reasonably	requested
	
by	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender	for	purposes	of	compliance	with	applicable	“know	your	customer”	and	Anti-Money
	
Laundering	Laws,	including	the	Act	and	the	Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation.	Notwithstanding	the	foregoing,	neither	the	Borrower
	
nor	any	Subsidiary	shall	be	required	to	disclose	or	permit	inspection	or	discussion	of,	any	document,	information	or	other	matter	(i)
	
that	constitutes	non-registered	intellectual	property,	trade	secrets,	proprietary	information,	or	strategy	level	detail	with	respect	to
	
operational	performance	(except	insofar	as	it	relates	to	determining	compliance	by	the	Borrower	or	any	Subsidiary	with	the
	
requirements	of	this	Agreement),	(ii)	in	respect	of	which	disclosure	to	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender	(or	their	respective
	
representatives	or	contractors)	is	prohibited	by	applicable	law	or	any	binding	agreement	or	(iii)	that	is	subject	to	attorney	client	or
	
similar	privilege	or	constitutes	attorney	work	product.
Subject	to	the	next	succeeding	sentence,	information	delivered	pursuant	to	this	
Section	5.01
	to	the	Administrative	Agent	shall
	
promptly	be	made	available	by	the	Administrative	Agent	to	the	Lenders	by	posting	such	information	on	the	DebtDomain	website	on
	
the	Internet	at	
http://www.debtdomain.com
.	Information	delivered	pursuant	to	this	
Section	5.01
	may	also	be	delivered	by	electronic
	
communication	pursuant	to	procedures	approved	by	the	Administrative	Agent	pursuant	to	
Section	9.01(b)
	hereto.	Notwithstanding
	
anything	herein	to	the	contrary,	financial	information	required	to	be	delivered	pursuant	to	
Sections	5.01(a)
	and	
(b)
	(in	each	case,
	
solely	to	the	extent	such	financial	information	is	included	in	materials	filed	with	the	SEC)	shall	be	deemed	to	have	been	delivered	to
	
the	Administrative	Agent	on	the	date	on	which	such	information	is	available	via	the	EDGAR	system	of	the	SEC	on	the	Internet;
	
provided
	that,	in	each	case,	the	Borrower	shall	(i)	to	the	extent	such	information	required	to	be	provided	under	
Section	5.01(a)
	is
	
not	included	in	materials	filed	with	the	SEC,	separately	deliver	to	the	Administrative	Agent	an	audit	report	and	the	opinion	of
	
PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP	or	other	independent	certified	public	accountants	of	national	recognized	standing	satisfying	the
	
requirements	set	forth	in	
Section	5.01(a)
	if	such	information	is	not	available	via	the	EDGAR	system	of	the	SEC	on	the	Internet,
	
promptly	deliver	email	copies	of	any	such	documents	to	the	Administrative	Agent	if	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender
	
requests	the	Borrower	to	furnish	such	copies	until	written	notice	to	cease	delivering	such	copies	is	given	by	the	Administrative
	
Agent
SECTION	5.02.		
Notices	of	Material	Events
.		The	Borrower	will	furnish	to	the	Administrative	Agent	prompt
	
written	notice	of	the	following,	upon	becoming	aware	of	such	event:
71
	(a)	
the	occurrence	of	any	Default;
(b)	
the	occurrence	of	any	event,	development	or	circumstance	that	has	had	or	would	reasonably	be	expected	to,
	
individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect;
(c)	
the	filing	or	commencement	of	any	action,	suit	or	proceeding	by	or	before	any	arbitrator	or	Governmental
	
Authority	against	or	affecting	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	as	to	which	there	is	a	reasonable	possibility	of	an
	
adverse	determination	and	that,	if	adversely	determined,	that	would	reasonably	be	expected	to,	individually	or	in	the
	
aggregate,	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect;	and
(d)	
any	change	in	the	information	provided	in	the	Beneficial	Ownership	Certification	delivered	to	such	Lender
	
that	would	result	in	change	to	the	list	of	beneficial	owners	identified	in	such	certification.
Each	notice	delivered	under	this	
Section	5.02
	(other	than	in	the	case	of	
clause	(d)
)	shall	be	accompanied	by	a	statement	of	an
	
Authorized	Officer	or	other	representative	of	the	Borrower	setting	forth	the	details	of	the	event	or	development	requiring	such
	
notice	and	any	action	taken	or	proposed	to	be	taken	with	respect	thereto.		The	Administrative	Agent	shall	promptly	deliver	such
	
notice	to	the	Lenders.
SECTION	5.03.		
Existence;	Conduct	of	Business
.		The	Borrower	will,	and	will	cause	each	of	its	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries	to,	do	or	cause	to	be	done	all	things	necessary	to	preserve,	renew	and	keep	in	full	force	and	effect	its	legal	existence
	
(other	than	with	respect	to	the	maintenance	of	the	existence	of	the	Borrower)	and,	in	its	commercially	reasonable	business
	
judgment,	the	rights,	licenses,	permits,	privileges	and	franchises	material	to	the	conduct	of	its	business	on	a	consolidated	basis
	
except	to	the	extent	that	failure	to	do	so	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	result	in	a	Material
	
Adverse	Effect;	
provided
	that	the	foregoing	shall	not	prohibit	any	merger,	consolidation,	liquidation	or	dissolution	permitted	under
	
Section	6.03
.
SECTION	5.04.		
Payment	of	Obligations
.		The	Borrower	will,	and	will	cause	each	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	to,
	
pay	its	obligations	(other	than	in	respect	of	any	Indebtedness),	including	Tax	liabilities,	that,	if	not	paid,	would	reasonably	be
	
expected	to,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect	before	the	same	shall	become	delinquent	or	in
	
default,	except	where	(a)	the	validity	or	amount	thereof	is	being	contested	in	good	faith	by	appropriate	proceedings,	(b)	the
	
Borrower	or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary	has	set	aside	on	its	books	adequate	reserves	with	respect	thereto	in	accordance	with	GAAP
	
and	(c)	the	failure	to	make	payment	pending	such	contest	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,
	
result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
SECTION	5.05.		
Maintenance	of	Properties;	Insurance
.		The	Borrower	will,	and	will	cause	each	of	its	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries	to,	(a)	keep	and	maintain	all	tangible	property	material	to	the	conduct	of	the	business	of	the	Borrower	and	its
	
Restricted	Subsidiaries,	taken	as	a	whole,	in	good	working	order	and	condition,	ordinary	wear	and	tear	excepted	except	to	the
	
extent	that	the	failure	to	do	so	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect	and	(b)	maintain	insurance
	
(including	self-insurance)	as	the	Borrower	believes	(in	its	good	faith	judgment)	to	be	reasonable	and	prudent.
SECTION	5.06.		
Books	and	Records;	Inspection	Rights
.		The	Borrower	will,	and	will	cause	each	of	its	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries	to,	keep	proper	books	of	record	and	account	sufficient	to	permit	the	preparation	of	consolidated	financial	statements	in
	
accordance	with	GAAP.		The	Borrower	will,	and	will	cause	each	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	to,	permit	any	representatives
	
reasonably	acceptable	to	the	Borrower	designated	by	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	Lender,	upon	reasonable	prior	notice,	at	their
	
72
	own	expense	(unless	a	Default	has	occurred	and	is	continuing)	to	visit	and	inspect	its	properties	during	normal	business	hours,	to
	
examine	and	make	extracts	from	its	books	and	records,	and	to	discuss	its	affairs,	finances	and	condition	with	its	officers	and
	
independent	accountants,	all	at	such	reasonable	times	not	to	exceed,	for	all	such	designated	representatives	collectively,	one	time
	
in	any	fiscal	year	(with	visits	by	designated	representatives	of	the	Lenders	to	be	coordinated	through	the	Administrative	Agent)
	
(
provided
	that	such	limitation	shall	not	apply	at	any	time	a	Default	has	occurred	and	is	continuing).
SECTION	5.07.		
Compliance	with	Laws
.		The	Borrower	will,	and	will	cause	each	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	to,
	
comply	with	all	laws,	rules,	regulations	and	orders	of	any	Governmental	Authority	applicable	to	it	or	its	property,	except	(a)	in	such
	
instances	where	any	alleged	non-compliance	is	being	contested	in	good	faith	by	appropriate	proceedings	or	(b)	where	the	failure	to
	
do	so	would	not	reasonably	be	expected	to,	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
		
SECTION	5.08.		
Anti-Corruption	Laws	and	Sanctions
.		The	Borrower	will	maintain	in	effect	and	enforce	policies
	
and	procedures	reasonably	designed	to	promote	compliance	by	the	Borrower,	its	Subsidiaries	and	their	respective	directors,
	
officers,	and,	to	its	knowledge,	its	employees,	agents	and	Affiliates	with	Anti-Corruption	Laws	and	applicable	Sanctions.
SECTION	5.09.		
Further	Assurances
.
	
(a)	
If	(I)(A)	the	Borrower	or	any	Loan	Party	establishes,	creates	or	acquires	after	the	Effective	Date	any	direct
	
wholly-owned	Domestic	Subsidiary	(or	any	existing	wholly-owned	Domestic	Subsidiary	becomes	a	direct	wholly-owned	Domestic
	
Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower)	other	than	an	Excluded	Subsidiary	or	(B)	any	direct	wholly-owned	Domestic	Subsidiary	ceases	to	be	an
	
Excluded	Subsidiary	or	(II)	any	direct	wholly-owned	Domestic	Subsidiary	(other	than	an	Excluded	Subsidiary)	becomes	a	guarantor
	
with	respect	to	any	Specified	Borrower	Indebtedness,	then	(x)	with	respect	to	the	foregoing	
clause	(I)
,	the	Borrower	will	promptly
	
notify	the	Administrative	Agent	of	such	occurrence	and	within	sixty	(60)	days	(as	such	date	may	be	extended	from	time	to	time	by
	
the	Administrative	Agent	in	its	sole	discretion)	after	such	date	or	(y)	with	respect	to	the	foregoing	
clause	(II)
,	on	such	date	on	which
	
such	direct	wholly-owned	Domestic	Subsidiary	becomes	a	guarantor	with	respect	to	such	Specified	Borrower	Indebtedness,	in	each
	
case,	such	wholly-owned	Domestic	Subsidiary	shall	(i)	become	party	to	the	Guarantee	Agreement,	by	executing	and	delivering	to
	
the	Administrative	Agent	a	counterpart	of	the	Guarantee	Agreement	or	a	counterpart	of	a	Joinder	Agreement	(as	defined	in	the
	
Guarantee	Agreement)	(or	other	applicable	joinder	agreement	reasonably	satisfactory	to	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the
	
Borrower),	as	applicable	and	(ii)	execute	and	deliver,	or	cause	to	be	executed	and	delivered,	all	other	relevant	documentation	of	the
	
type	described	in	
Sections	4.01(b)
	and	
(c)
	with	respect	to	such	direct	wholly-owned	Domestic	Subsidiary.
	
(b)	
If,	as	of	the	last	day	of	any	fiscal	quarter	of	the	Borrower,	the	aggregate	consolidated	total	assets	(excluding
	
intercompany	assets)	of	all	Immaterial	Subsidiaries	(which	for	purposes	of	this	Section	5.09(b)	does	not	include	any	Excluded
	
Subsidiaries	that	are	not	Immaterial	Subsidiaries)	exceeds	12.5%	of	Consolidated	Total	Assets	(as	set	forth	in	the	most	recent
	
consolidated	balance	sheet	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	delivered	to	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	this	Agreement
	
and	computed	in	accordance	with	GAAP)	or	the	aggregate	consolidated	total	revenues	of	all	Immaterial	Subsidiaries	exceeds	12.5%
	
of	the	consolidated	total	revenues	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	(as	set	forth	in	the	most	recent	income
	
statement	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	delivered	to	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	and	computed	in
	
accordance	with	GAAP)	then,	within	ninety	(90)	days	after	the	end	of	any	such	fiscal	quarter	(or,	if	such	fiscal	quarter	is	the	fourth
	
fiscal	quarter	of	the	Borrower,	within	one	hundred	and	twenty	(120)	days	thereafter)	(as	either	such	date	may	be	extended	by	the
	
Administrative	Agent	in	its	reasonable	discretion)),	the	Borrower	shall	cause	one	or	more	Immaterial	Subsidiaries	to	take	the
	
actions	specified	in
	
73
	Section	5.09(a)(i)
	and	
(ii)
	above;	
provided
,	
however
,	such	actions	shall	only	be	required	to	the	extent	that,	after	giving	effect	to	such
	
actions,	the	aggregate	consolidated	total	assets	(excluding	intercompany	assets)	of	all	Immaterial	Subsidiaries	do	not	exceed	12.5%
	
of	Consolidated	Total	Assets	and	the	aggregate	consolidated	total	revenues	of	all	Immaterial	Subsidiaries	do	not	exceed	12.5%	of
	
consolidated	total	revenues	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	(as	set	forth	in	the	most	recent	income	statement	of
	
the	Borrower	and	its	Consolidated	Subsidiaries	delivered	to	the	Lenders	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	and	computed	in	accordance
	
with	GAAP).
SECTION	5.10.		
ERISA
.
		
(a)	
The	Borrower	will	deliver	to	the	Administrative	Agent	(in	sufficient	copies	for	all	Lenders,	if	the
	
Administrative	Agent	so	requests):
	
(i)	promptly	and	in	any	event	within	fifteen	(15)	days	after	receiving	a	request	from	the	Administrative	Agent	a
	
copy	of	the	most	recent	IRS	Form	5500	(including	the	Schedule	B)	with	respect	to	a	Plan;
(ii)	promptly	and	in	any	event	within	thirty	(30	)days	after	any	Responsible	Officer	of	the	Borrower	knows	that
	
any	ERISA	Event	has	occurred	that,	either	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	could	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a
	
Material	Adverse	Effect,	a	certificate	of	an	Authorized	Officer	of	the	Borrower	describing	such	ERISA	Event	and	the	action,
	
if	any,	proposed	to	be	taken	with	respect	to	such	ERISA	Event	and	a	copy	of	any	notice	filed	with	the	PBGC	or	the	IRS
	
pertaining	to	such	ERISA	Event	and	any	notices	received	by	any	Loan	Party,	any	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower	or,	to	the
	
Borrower’s	knowledge,	any	ERISA	Affiliate	from	the	PBGC	or	any	other	governmental	agency	with	respect	thereto;
	
provided	
that	in	the	case	of	such	ERISA	Events	under	
paragraphs	(b)
,	
(c)
	and	
(d)
	of	the	definition	thereof,	the	30-day	notice
	
period	set	forth	above	shall	be	a	10-day	period,	and,	in	the	case	of	such	ERISA	Events	under	
paragraphs	(g)
	and	
(i)
	of	the
	
definition	thereof,	in	no	event	shall	notice	be	given	later	than	ten	(10)	days	after	the	occurrence	of	any	such	ERISA	Event;
	
and
(iii)	promptly,	and	in	any	event	within	thirty	(30)	days,	after	a	Responsible	Officer	of	the	Borrower,	becomes
	
aware	that	there	has	been	(A)	an	increase	in	the	unfunded	liabilities	with	respect	any	Plan	(taking	into	account	only	Plans
	
with	positive	unfunded	liabilities)	that,	either	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	could	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a
	
Material	Adverse	Effect,	(B)	an	increase	since	the	date	the	representations	hereunder	are	given	or	deemed	given,	or	from
	
any	prior	notice,	as	applicable,	in	potential	withdrawal	liability	under	Section	4201	of	ERISA,	if	the	Loan	Parties,	the
	
Subsidiaries	of	the	Borrower	and	the	ERISA	Affiliates	were	to	withdraw	completely	from	any	and	all	Multiemployer	Plans
	
that,	either	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	could	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect,	(C)	that	any
	
contribution	required	to	be	made	with	respect	to	a	Foreign	Pension	Plan	has	not	been	timely	made,	except	where	the
	
failure	to	do	so,	either	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	could	not	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a	Material	Adverse	Effect
	
or	(D)	the	adoption	of	any	amendment	to	a	Plan	which	results	in	an	increase	in	contribution	obligations	of	any	Loan	Party
	
or	any	Subsidiary	that,	either	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	could	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	a	Material	Adverse
	
Effect,	a	detailed	written	description	thereof	from	an	Authorized	Officer	of	the	Borrower.
74
	(b)	
The	Borrower	and	each	of	its	applicable	Subsidiaries	shall	ensure	that	all	Foreign	Pension	Plans
	
administered	by	it	obtains	or	retains	(as	applicable)	registered	or	tax-qualified,	as	applicable,	status	under	and	as	required	by
	
applicable	law	and	is	administered	in	a	timely	manner	in	all	respects	in	compliance	with	all	applicable	laws	and	the	terms	of	each
	
relevant	Foreign	Pension	Plans,	except	where	the	failure	to	do	any	of	the	foregoing,	either	individually	or	in	the	aggregate,	would
	
not	be	reasonably	likely	to	result	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect.
SECTION	5.11.		
Use	of	Proceeds
.	The	Borrower	will	use	the	proceeds	of	the	Loans	and	Letters	of	Credit	only	as
	
provided	in	
Section	3.12
.
Article	VI
Negative	Covenants
Until	the	Commitments	have	expired	or	terminated	and	the	principal	of	and	interest	on	each	Loan	and	all	fees
	
payable	hereunder	have	been	paid	in	full	and	all	Letters	of	Credit	have	expired	or	terminated	(other	than	those	for	which
	
accommodations	acceptable	to	the	applicable	Issuing	Bank	have	been	made),	in	each	case,	without	any	pending	draw,	and	all	LC
	
Disbursements	shall	have	been	reimbursed,	the	Borrower	covenants	and	agrees	with	the	Lenders	that:
SECTION	6.01.		
Minimum	Liquidity
.		The	Borrower	will	not	at	any	time	permit	the	Consolidated	Liquidity	to	be
	
less	than	$1,000,000,000.
	
SECTION	6.02.		
Liens
.		The	Borrower	will	not,	and	will	not	permit	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	to,	create,	incur,
	
assume	or	permit	to	exist	any	Lien	on	any	property	or	asset	now	owned	or	hereafter	acquired	by	it,	or	assign	or	sell	any	income	or
	
revenues	(including	accounts	receivable)	or	rights	in	respect	of	any	thereof,	except:
(a)
	
Permitted	Encumbrances;
	
(b)
	
any	Lien	on	any	property	or	asset	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	existing	on	the	date	hereof
	
and	set	forth	in	
Schedule	6.02
;	
provided
	that	(i)	such	Lien	shall	not	apply	to	any	other	property	or	asset	of	the	Borrower	or
	
any	Restricted	Subsidiary	(other	than	the	proceeds	and	products	thereof	and	accessions	and	improvements	thereto)	and
	
(ii)	such	Lien	shall	secure	only	those	obligations	which	it	secures	on	the	date	hereof	and	extensions,	renewals	and
	
replacements	thereof	that	do	not	increase	the	outstanding	principal	amount	thereof	except	by	the	amount	of	any	accrued
	
interest,	premiums	or	fees	payable	by	the	Borrower	or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary	in	respect	of	such	obligations;
(c)
	
any	Lien	existing	on	any	property	or	asset	prior	to	the	acquisition	thereof	by	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted
	
Subsidiary	or	existing	on	any	property	or	asset	of	any	Person	that	becomes	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	after	the	date	hereof
	
prior	to	the	time	such	Person	becomes	a	Restricted	Subsidiary;	
provided
	that	(i)	such	Lien	is	not	created	in	contemplation
	
of	or	in	connection	with	such	acquisition	or	such	Person	becoming	a	Restricted	Subsidiary,	as	the	case	may	be,	(ii)	such
	
Lien	shall	not	apply	to	any	other	property	or	assets	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	(other	than	the	proceeds
	
and	products	thereof	and	accessions	and	improvements	thereto)	and	(iii)	such	Lien	shall	secure	only	those	obligations
	
which	it	secures	on	the	date	of	such	acquisition	or	the	date	such	Person	becomes	a	Restricted	Subsidiary,	as	the	case	may
	
be	and	extensions,	renewals	and	replacements	thereof	that	do	not	increase	the	outstanding	principal	amount	thereof
	
except	by	the	amount	of	any	accrued	interest,	premiums	or	fees	payable	by	the	Borrower	or	such	Restricted	Subsidiary	in
	
respect	of	such	obligations;
75
	(d)
	
Liens	on	fixed	or	capital	assets	acquired,	constructed	or	improved	by	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted
	
Subsidiary;	
provided
	that	(i)	such	security	interests	and	the	Indebtedness	secured	thereby	are	incurred	prior	to	or	within
	
365	days	after	such	acquisition	or	the	completion	of	such	construction	or	improvement	and	(ii)	such	security	interests	shall
	
not	apply	to	any	other	property	or	assets	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	(other	than	the	proceeds	and
	
products	thereof	and	accessions	and	improvements	thereto,	except	that	individual	financings	provided	by	a	Person	or	its
	
Affiliates	may	be	cross	collateralized	to	other	financings	provided	by	such	Person	or	its	Affiliates;	
provided
	that	such	other
	
financings	shall	(i)	have	a	similar	purpose	to	such	individual	financing	and	(ii)	be	part	of	a	series	of	financings	related	to
	
such	individual	financing);
(e)
	
Liens	securing	obligations	of	the	Specified	Tesla	Subsidiaries;
(f)
	
bankers’	Liens,	rights	of	setoff	and	other	similar	Liens	existing	solely	with	respect	to	cash	and	cash
	
equivalents	on	deposit	in	one	or	more	accounts	maintained	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries,	in	each	case	granted
	
in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	in	favor	of	the	bank	or	banks	or	other	financial	institutions	with	which	such	accounts	are
	
maintained,	securing	amounts	owing	to	such	bank	or	banks	with	respect	to	cash	management	and	operating	account
	
arrangements;
(g)	Liens	granted	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	on	insurance	policies,	proceeds	thereof	and	the	unearned
	
portion	of	insurance	premiums	with	respect	thereto	securing	the	financing	of	the	unpaid	cost	of	the	insurance	policies;
(h)	customary	Liens	granted	in	favor	of	a	trustee	pursuant	to	an	indenture	relating	to	Indebtedness	not	prohibited
	
by	this	Agreement	to	the	extent	such	Liens	(i)	secure	only	customary	compensation,	indemnification	and	reimbursement
	
obligations	owing	to	such	trustee	under	such	indenture	and	any	agreements	entered	into	by	such	trustee	(as	trustee	or
	
collateral	agent)	in	connection	therewith	and	(ii)	are	limited	to	the	cash	or	other	collateral	held	by	such	trustee	(excluding
	
cash	held	in	trust	for	the	payment	of	such	Indebtedness);
(i)	customary	Liens	securing	repurchase	obligations	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business;
(j)	Liens	on	Used	Motor	Vehicles	and	related	assets	(such	as	proceeds	and	documents	of	title	in	respect	thereof,
	
that	in	the	reasonable	opinion	of	the	Borrower	are	customary	for	financing	transactions	related	to	such	assets),	in	each
	
case	securing	Indebtedness	permitted	by	
Section	6.08(k)
;
	
(k)	Liens	of	the	purchaser	or	any	of	its	Affiliates	on	Environmental	Attributes	and	their	related	intangible	rights	in
	
connection	with	the	sale	of	such	Environmental	Attributes;
(l)	Liens	securing	Indebtedness	permitted	under	
Section	6.08(l)
;	
provided
	that	such	Lien	extends	only	to	the	real
	
property,	and	any	buildings,	structures,	parking	areas,	fixtures	or	other	improvements	thereon	and	other	property	of	the
	
type	customarily	described	in	a	mortgage	or	deed	of	trust,	comprising	the	Manufacturing	Facility	constructed,	improved	or
	
repaired	with	the	proceeds	of	such	Indebtedness	and,	if	applicable,	the	Equity	Interests	in	the	Restricted	Subsidiary	that
	
has	title	to	the	financed	Manufacturing	Facility	and	whose	assets	consist	solely	of	such	related	assets;
76
	(m)	Liens	on	Rental	Account	Assets	and	related	assets;
(n)	Liens	on	Used	Motor	Vehicles	and	related	assets	(such	as	proceeds	and	documents	of	title	in	respect	thereof,
	
that	in	the	reasonable	opinion	of	the	Borrower	are	customary	for	financing	transactions	related	to	such	assets);
	
(o)	Liens	on	assets	owned	by	a	Securitization	Subsidiary	which	is	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	granted	in	connection
	
with	a	Securitization	Transaction;	and
(p)	other	Liens	securing	obligations	of	the	Borrower	and	the	Restricted	Subsidiaries	that	do	not	in	the	aggregate
	
at	any	time	exceed	7.5%	of	Consolidated	Net	Tangible	Assets.
SECTION	6.03.		
Fundamental	Changes
.		The	Borrower	will	not,	and	will	not	permit	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	to,
	
merge	into	or	consolidate	with	any	other	Person,	or	permit	any	other	Person	to	merge	into	or	consolidate	with	it,	or	sell,	transfer,
	
license,	lease	or	otherwise	dispose	of	(in	one	transaction	or	in	a	series	of	transactions)	all	or	substantially	all	of	its	assets,	or	all	or
	
substantially	all	of	the	stock	of	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	(in	each	case,	whether	now	owned	or	hereafter	acquired),	or
	
liquidate	or	dissolve,	except	that,	if	at	the	time	thereof	and	immediately	after	giving	effect	thereto	no	Default	shall	have	occurred
	
and	be	continuing	(i)	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	may	merge	into	the	Borrower	in	a	transaction	in	which	the	Borrower	is	the
	
surviving	corporation,	(ii)	any	Person	(other	than	the	Borrower)	may	merge	into	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	in	a	transaction	in	which
	
the	surviving	entity	is	a	Restricted	Subsidiary,	(iii)	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	may	sell,	transfer,	license,	lease	or	otherwise	dispose
	
of	its	assets	to	the	Borrower	or	to	another	Restricted	Subsidiary,	(iv)	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	may	liquidate	or	dissolve	if	the
	
Borrower	determines	in	good	faith	that	such	liquidation	or	dissolution	is	in	the	best	interests	of	the	Borrower	and	is	not	materially
	
disadvantageous	to	the	Lenders,	(v)	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	may	be	sold	or	otherwise	disposed	of,	and	any	Restricted	Subsidiary
	
may	merge	or	consolidate	with	any	other	Person	or	sell,	lease,	license	or	otherwise	dispose	of,	all	or	substantially	all	of	its	assets	so
	
long	as,	in	each	case,	such	sales,	transfers,	licenses,	leases	or	disposals,	in	the	aggregate,	do	not	constitute	all	or	substantially	all	of
	
the	assets	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries,	taken	as	a	whole	and	(vi)	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	may
	
sell,	transfer,	license,	lease	or	otherwise	dispose	of	its	assets	to	a	Securitization	Subsidiary	in	connection	with	a	Securitization
	
Transaction	so	long	as	such	sales,	transfers,	licenses,	leases	or	disposals,	in	the	aggregate,	do	not	constitute	all	or	substantially	all
	
of	the	assets	of	the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries,	taken	as	a	whole.		Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	in	this
	
Agreement,	the	Borrower	shall	not	reorganize	under	the	laws	of	any	jurisdiction	other	than	a	state	of	the	United	States	of	America.
77
	SECTION	6.04.		
Clauses	Restricting	Subsidiary	Distributions
.		The	Borrower	will	not,	and	will	not	permit	any
	
Restricted	Subsidiary	to,	enter	into	or	suffer	to	exist	or	become	effective	any	consensual	encumbrance	or	restriction	on	the	ability
	
of	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower	to	(a)	make	Restricted	Payments	in	respect	of	any	capital	stock	of	such	Restricted
	
Subsidiary	held	by,	or	pay	any	Indebtedness	owed	to,	the	Borrower	or	any	other	Restricted	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower,	other	than
	
subordination	of	Indebtedness	or	subrogation	rights	in	connection	with	permitted	guaranties,	(b)	make	loans	or	advances	to,	or
	
other	investments	in,	the	Borrower	or	any	other	Restricted	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower	or	(c)	transfer	any	of	its	assets	to	the
	
Borrower	or	any	other	Restricted	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower,	except	for	such	encumbrances	or	restrictions	(x)	entered	into	by	the
	
Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	which	the	Borrower	has	reasonably	determined	in
	
good	faith	will	not	materially	impair	the	Borrower’s	ability	to	make	payments	under	this	Agreement	when	due	(including	on	the
	
Maturity	Date)	or	(y)	existing	under	or	by	reason	of:
(i)	any	restrictions	with	respect	to	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	or	its	assets	imposed	pursuant	to	an	agreement	that
	
has	been	entered	into	in	connection	with	the	disposition	of	capital	stock	or	assets	of	such	Subsidiary;
(ii)	any	restrictions,	limitations,	conditions	and	prohibitions	under	or	imposed	by	any	indenture,	agreement,
	
instrument	or	other	contractual	arrangement	in	effect	on	the	Effective	Date	(including	this	Agreement)	and	any	similar
	
indentures,	agreements	or	instruments	to	the	extent	such	restrictions,	limitations,	conditions	and	prohibitions	are
	
customary	or	reasonable	or	otherwise	no	more	restrictive,	taken	as	a	whole,	than	those	set	forth	in	such	existing
	
indentures,	agreements	or	instruments	(including	this	Agreement),	in	each	case	as	reasonably	determined	by	the
	
Borrower;
	
(iii)	any	agreements	governing	any	purchase	money	Liens,	Capital	Lease	Obligations	or	other	Liens	otherwise
	
permitted	hereby	to	the	extent	any	prohibition	or	limitation	restricts	Liens	on	the	assets	subject	to	such	Lien;
(iv)	any	prohibitions	or	conditions	under	applicable	law,	rule	or	regulation	or	contained	in	any	Loan	Document;
(v)	customary	provisions	restricting	assignment	of	any	licensing	agreement	(in	which	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its
	
Restricted	Subsidiaries	is	the	licensee)	or	any	other	contract	entered	into	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business;
(vi)	any	agreement	in	effect	at	the	time	a	Person	becomes	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	of	the	Borrower,	so	long	as
	
such	agreement	was	not	entered	into	in	connection	with	or	in	contemplation	of	such	Person	becoming	a	Subsidiary	of	the
	
Borrower;
	
(vii)	any	provisions	restricting	assignment	of	any	agreement	entered	into	by	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	in	the
	
ordinary	course	of	business	and	consistent	with	past	practices;
	
(viii)	any	provisions	restricting	subletting	or	assignment	of	any	lease	governing	a	leasehold	interest	of	a
	
Restricted	Subsidiary	entered	into	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business	and	consistent	with	past	practices;
(ix)	customary	provisions	in	partnership	agreements,	limited	liability	company	governance	documents,	joint
	
venture	agreements	and	other	similar	agreements	that	restrict	the	transfer	of	assets	of,	or	ownership	interests	in,	the
	
relevant	partnership,	limited	liability	company,	joint	venture	or	similar	Person;
78
		(x)	
provisions	in	agreements	or	instruments	which	prohibit	the	payment	of	dividends	or	the	making	of	other
	
distributions	with	respect	to	any	class	of	Equity	Interests	of	a	Person	other	than	on	a	pro	rata	basis;
(xi)	encumbrances	or	restrictions	on	cash	or	other	deposits	or	net	worth	imposed	by	customers	under	agreements
	
entered	into	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business;
	
	(xii)	
customary	net	worth	or	similar	financial	maintenance	provisions	contained	in	real	property	leases	entered
	
into	by	any	Restricted	Subsidiary;
	
(xiii)	arrangements	with	any	Governmental	Authority	imposed	on	any	Foreign	Subsidiary	in	connection	with
	
governmental	grants,	financial	aid,	tax	holidays	or	similar	benefits;
	
(xiv)	customary	restrictions	created	in	connection	with	any	Securitization	Transaction;	or
(xv)	customary	restrictions,	limitations,	conditions	or	prohibitions	applicable	to	the	Specified	Tesla	Subsidiaries.
SECTION	6.05.		
Lines	of	Business
.	The	Borrower	and	the	Restricted	Subsidiaries,	taken	as	a	whole,	will	not
	
fundamentally	and	substantively	alter	the	character	of	their	business,	taken	as	a	whole,	from	the	business	conducted	by	the
	
Borrower	and	the	Restricted	Subsidiaries,	taken	as	a	whole,	on	the	Effective	Date	and	other	business	activities	which	are
	
extensions	thereof	or	otherwise	incidental,	synergistic,	reasonably	related,	or	ancillary	to	any	of	the	foregoing	(and	non-core
	
incidental	businesses	acquired	in	connection	with	any	acquisition).
SECTION	6.06.		
Transactions	with	Affiliates
.		(a)	The	Borrower	will	not,	and	will	not	permit	any	of	its	Restricted
	
Subsidiaries	to,	sell,	lease	or	otherwise	transfer	any	material	property	or	material	assets	to,	or	purchase,	lease	or	otherwise	acquire
	
any	material	property	or	material	assets	from,	or	otherwise	engage	in	any	other	material	transactions	with,	any	of	its	Affiliates
	
(other	than	the	Borrower	or	any	other	Restricted	Subsidiary	to	the	extent	such	transaction	does	not	otherwise	involve	any	other
	
Affiliate),	unless	such	transaction	is	(x)	upon	fair	and	reasonable	terms	no	less	favorable	in	all	material	respects	to	the	Borrower	or
	
the	relevant	Restricted	Subsidiary,	as	applicable,	than	it	would	obtain	in	a	comparable	arm’s	length	transaction	with	a	Person	that
	
is	not	an	Affiliate	or	(y)	otherwise	expressly	permitted	hereunder	(including	Standard	Securitization	Undertakings);	
provided
	that
	
nothing	in	this	
Section	6.06
	prohibit:	(i)	any	Affiliate	who	is	an	individual	from	serving	as	a	director,	officer	or	employee	of	the
	
Borrower	or	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	and	receiving	reasonable	compensation	for	his	or	her	services	in	such	capacity;	(ii)	so
	
long	as	the	Borrower	is	publicly	held,	any	transaction	that	is	approved	in	accordance	with	the	then-applicable	related	party
	
transaction	(or	similar)	policy	of	the	Borrower,	(iii)	the	issuance	of	common	stock	and	the	making	of	any	Restricted	Payment	in	the
	
ordinary	course	of	business	or	(iv)	the	payment	of	customary	fees,	indemnities	and	reimbursements	paid	to	officers	and	directors	of
	
the	Borrower	and	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries.
	
(b)	The	Borrower	shall	not,	and	shall	not	permit	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	that	is	not	a	Specified	Tesla	Subsidiary
	
to,	sell,	transfer,	license,	lease	or	otherwise	dispose	of	any	of	its	material	assets	or	material	property	to	a	Specified	Tesla
	
Subsidiary	unless	such	sale,	transfer,	license,	lease	or	other	disposition	is	made	for	bona	fide	business	purposes	related	to
	
the	business	of	the	applicable	Specified	Tesla	Subsidiary.
SECTION	6.07.		
Use	of	Proceeds
.		The	Borrower	will	not,	and	will	not	permit	any	of	its	Subsidiaries	to,	use
	
directly	or	indirectly	the	proceeds	of	any	Loan	or	Letter	of	Credit,	or	lend,	contribute	or	otherwise	make	available	such	proceeds	to
	
any	Subsidiary	or	any	other	Person	(a)	in	furtherance	of	an
	
79
	offer,	payment,	promise	to	pay,	or	authorization	of	the	payment	or	giving	of	money,	or	anything	else	of	value,	to	any	Person	in
	
material	violation	of	any	applicable	Anti-Corruption	Laws,	(b)	for	the	purpose	of	funding,	financing	or	facilitating	any	activities,
	
business	or	transaction	of	or	with	any	Sanctioned	Person,	or	in	any	Sanctioned	Country	or	(c)	in	any	other	manner	that	would	result
	
in	a	violation	of	any	Anti-Corruption	Laws,	any	Anti-Money	Laundering	Laws	or	applicable	Sanctions	by	any	party	to	this
	
Agreement.
SECTION	6.08.		
Subsidiary	Indebtedness
.		The	Borrower	will	not	permit	any	of	its	Restricted	Subsidiaries	to
	
directly	or	indirectly,	create,	incur,	assume	or	suffer	to	exist	any	Indebtedness,	except:
(a)	Indebtedness	existing	on	the	date	hereof	and	set	forth	in	
Schedule	6.08
	and	amendments,	extensions,
	
renewals,	refinancings	and	replacements	of	any	such	Indebtedness	that	do	not	increase	the	outstanding	principal	amount
	
thereof	(except	by	the	amount	of	any	accrued	interest	and	premiums	with	respect	to	such	Indebtedness	and	transaction
	
fees,	costs	and	expenses	in	connection	with	such	extension,	renewal	or	replacement	thereof);
(b)	Indebtedness	of	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	to	the	Borrower	or	any	other	Restricted	Subsidiary;
(c)	Guarantees	by	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	of	Indebtedness	of	any	other	Restricted	Subsidiary;
(d)	Capital	Lease	Obligations	and	other	Indebtedness	incurred	to	finance	the	purchase	price	or	improvement	cost
	
incurred	or	assumed	in	connection	with	the	acquisition,	construction	or	improvement	of	fixed	capital	or	capital	assets	and
	
any	amendments,	extensions,	renewals,	refinancings	and	replacements	thereof	that	do	not	increase	the	outstanding
	
principal	amount	thereof	(except	by	the	amount	of	any	accrued	interest	and	premiums	with	respect	to	such	Indebtedness
	
and	transaction	fees,	costs	and	expenses	in	connection	with	such	extension,	renewal	or	replacement	thereof);
(e)	Indebtedness	in	respect	of	performance	bonds,	bid	bonds,	appeal	bonds,	surety	bonds	and	completion
	
guarantees,	standby	and	documentary	letters	of	credit	and	similar	obligations,	in	each	case	provided	in	the	ordinary	course
	
of	business;
(f)	Indebtedness	assumed	in	connection	with	an	acquisition	of	the	equity	interests	or	the	assets	of	any	Person;
	
provided
	that	such	Indebtedness	(i)	exists	at	the	time	of	the	acquisition	of	such	equity	interests	or	assets	and	(ii)	is	not
	
created	in	contemplation	of	or	in	connection	with	the	acquisition	of	such	equity	interests	or	assets;
(g)	Indebtedness	consisting	of	the	financing	of	insurance	premiums	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business;
(h)	Indebtedness	owed	in	respect	of	any	overdrafts	and	related	liabilities	arising	from	treasury,	depository	and
	
cash	management	services	or	in	connection	with	any	automated	clearing-house	transfers	of	funds;	provided	that	such
	
Indebtedness	shall	be	repaid	in	full	within	ten	Business	Days	of	the	incurrence	thereof;
80
	(i)	Indebtedness	in	respect	of	non-speculative	Swap	Agreements	relating	to	the	business	or	operations	of	such
	
Subsidiary;
(j)	Indebtedness	of	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	as	an	account	party	in	respect	of	letters	of	credit	or	letters	of
	
guarantee	in	the	ordinary	course	of	business;
(k)	Indebtedness	of	any	Restricted	Subsidiaries	secured	by	a	Lien	on	Used	Motor	Vehicles	and	related	assets;
	
provided
	that	such	Indebtedness	shall	not	be	secured	by	any	assets	other	than	Used	Motor	Vehicles	and	other	related
	
assets,	such	as	proceeds	therefrom	and	documents	of	title	in	respect	thereof,	that	in	the	reasonable	opinion	of	the
	
Borrower	are	customary	for	financing	transactions	related	to	such	assets;	
provided
,	
further
,	that	the	aggregate	principal
	
amount	of	Indebtedness	outstanding	at	any	time	pursuant	to	this	
clause	(l)
	shall	not	exceed	$300,000,000;
(l)	Indebtedness	of	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	incurred	to	provide	all	or	a	portion	of,	or	to	reimburse	any
	
Restricted	Subsidiary	for	expenditures	relating	to,	the	cost	of	construction,	repair	or	improvement	of	any	Manufacturing
	
Facility,	including	a	long-term	financing	of	any	Manufacturing	Facility;
(m)	Indebtedness	of	any	direct	or	indirect	subsidiary	of	TEO	that	is	(i)	a	renewal,	extension,	exchange,
	
replacement	or	refinancing	of	Indebtedness	outstanding	on	the	Effective	Date	(plus	the	sum	of	(1)	accrued	and	unpaid
	
interest	thereon,	(2)	any	prepayment	or	exchange	premium	and	(3)	customary	premium,	fees	and	expenses	relating	to	such
	
renewal,	extension,	exchange,	replacement,	refinancing	or	issuance)	or	(ii)	incurred	by	any	special	purpose	subsidiary	of
	
TEO	so	long	as	there	shall	be	no	recourse	to,	or	obligation	of	(whether	direct,	by	guarantee	or	otherwise),	the	Borrower	or
	
any	of	its	Subsidiaries	(other	than	pursuant	to	representations,	warranties,	covenants	and	indemnities	entered	into	in	the
	
ordinary	course	of	business	in	connection	with	such	Indebtedness	that	in	the	reasonable	opinion	of	the	Borrower	are
	
customary	for	such	transactions);
(n)	Indebtedness	of	the	Specified	Tesla	Subsidiaries;	and
(o)	other	Indebtedness	in	an	aggregate	principal	amount	not	to	exceed	at	any	time	outstanding	7.5%	of
	
Consolidated	Net	Tangible	Assets.
Article	VII
Events	of	Default
SECTION	7.01.		
Events	of	Default
.		If	any	of	the	following	events	(“
Events	of	Default
”)	shall	occur:
(a)	
the	Borrower	shall	fail	to	pay	any	principal	of	any	Loan	or	any	reimbursement	obligation	in	respect	of	any
	
LC	Disbursement	when	and	as	the	same	shall	become	due	and	payable,	whether	at	the	due	date	thereof	or	otherwise;
(b)	
the	Borrower	shall	fail	to	pay	any	interest	on	any	Loan	or	any	fee	or	any	other	amount	(other	than	an	amount
	
referred	to	in	
clause	(a)
	of	this	
Section	7.01
)	payable	under	this	Agreement,	when	and	as	the	same	shall	become	due	and
	
payable,	and	such	failure	shall	continue	unremedied	for	a	period	of	five	(5)	Business	Days;
81
	(c)	
any	representation	or	warranty	made	or	deemed	made	by	or	on	behalf	of	the	Borrower	in	or	in	connection
	
with	this	Agreement	or	any	amendment	or	modification	hereof	or	waiver	hereunder,	or	in	any	report,	certificate,	financial
	
statement	or	other	document	furnished	pursuant	to	or	in	connection	with	this	Agreement	or	any	amendment	or
	
modification	hereof	or	waiver	hereunder,	shall	prove	to	have	been	incorrect	in	any	material	respect	when	made	or	deemed
	
made;
(d)	
the	Borrower	shall	fail	to	observe	or	perform	any	covenant,	condition	or	agreement	contained	in	
Section
	
5.02(a)
,	
Section	5.03
	(with	respect	to	the	Borrower’s	existence)	or	in	
Article	VI
;
(e)	
the	Borrower	shall	fail	to	observe	or	perform	any	covenant,	condition	or	agreement	contained	in	this
	
Agreement	(other	than	those	specified	in	
clauses	(a)
,	
(b)
	or	
(d)
	of	this	
Section	7.01
),	and	such	failure	shall	continue
	
unremedied	for	a	period	of	thirty	(30)	days	after	the	receipt	of	written	notice	thereof	from	the	Administrative	Agent	to	the
	
Borrower	(which	notice	will	be	given	at	the	request	of	any	Lender);
(f)	
the	Borrower	or	any	of	the	Restricted	Subsidiaries	that	are	Significant	Subsidiaries	shall	fail	to	make	any
	
payment	(whether	of	principal	or	interest	and	regardless	of	amount)	in	respect	of	any	Material	Indebtedness,	when	and	as
	
the	same	shall	become	due	and	payable	after	giving	effect	to	any	applicable	grace	period	or	waiver;
(g)	
any	event	or	condition	occurs	that	results	in	any	Material	Indebtedness	becoming	due	prior	to	its	scheduled
	
maturity;	
provided
	that	this	
clause	(g)
	shall	not	apply	to	(A)	secured	Indebtedness	that	becomes	due	as	a	result	of	the
	
voluntary	sale	or	transfer	of	the	property	or	assets	securing	such	Indebtedness,	(B)	any	conversion,	repurchase	or
	
redemption	of	any	Material	Indebtedness	scheduled	by	the	terms	thereof	to	occur	on	a	particular	date	and	not	subject	to
	
any	contingent	event	or	condition	related	to	the	creditworthiness,	financial	performance	or	financial	condition	of	the
	
Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Significant	Subsidiary	or	(C)	any	repurchase	or	redemption	of	any	Material
	
Indebtedness	pursuant	to	any	put	option	exercised	by	the	holder	of	such	Material	Indebtedness;	
provided
	that	such	put
	
option	is	exercisable	at	times	specified	in	the	terms	of	the	Material	Indebtedness	and	not	as	a	result	of	any	contingent
	
event	or	condition	related	to	the	creditworthiness,	financial	performance	or	financial	condition	of	the	Borrower	or	the
	
applicable	Restricted	Subsidiaries	that	are	Significant	Subsidiaries	or	a	Change	in	Control;
(h)	
an	involuntary	proceeding	shall	be	commenced	or	an	involuntary	petition	shall	be	filed	seeking	(i)
	
liquidation,	reorganization	or	other	relief	in	respect	of	the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Significant
	
Subsidiary,	or	its	debts,	or	of	all	or	substantially	all	of	its	assets	(or,	in	the	case	of	the	Borrower,	a	substantial	part	of	its
	
assets),	under	any	Federal,	state	or	foreign	bankruptcy,	insolvency,	receivership	or	similar	law	now	or	hereafter	in	effect
	
or	(ii)	the	appointment	of	a	receiver,	trustee,	custodian,	sequestrator,	conservator	or	similar	official	for	the	Borrower	or
	
any	Restricted	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Significant	Subsidiary	or	for	all	or	substantially	all	of	its	assets	(or,	in	the	case	of	the
	
Borrower,	a	substantial	part	of	its	assets),	and,	in	any	such	case,	such	proceeding	or	petition	shall	continue	undismissed
	
for	sixty	(60)	days	or	an	order	or	decree	approving	or	ordering	any	of	the	foregoing	shall	be	entered;
82
	(i)	
the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Significant	Subsidiary	shall	(i)	voluntarily	commence	any
	
proceeding	or	file	any	petition	seeking	liquidation,	reorganization	or	other	relief	under	any	Federal,	state	or	foreign
	
bankruptcy,	insolvency,	receivership	or	similar	law	now	or	hereafter	in	effect,	(ii)	consent	to	the	institution	of,	or	fail	to
	
contest	in	a	timely	and	appropriate	manner,	any	proceeding	or	petition	described	in	
clause	(h)
	of	this	
Section	7.01
,	(iii)
	
apply	for	or	consent	to	the	appointment	of	a	receiver,	trustee,	custodian,	sequestrator,	conservator	or	similar	official	for
	
the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	that	is	a	Significant	Subsidiary,	or	for	all	or	substantially	all	of	its	assets	(or,	in
	
the	case	of	the	Borrower,	a	substantial	part	of	its	assets),	(iv)	file	an	answer	admitting	the	material	allegations	of	a	petition
	
filed	against	it	in	any	such	proceeding,	(v)	make	a	general	assignment	for	the	benefit	of	creditors	or	(vi)	take	any	action	for
	
the	purpose	of	directly	effecting	any	of	the	foregoing;
(j)	
the	Borrower	or	any	Restricted	Subsidiary	shall	become	unable,	admit	in	writing	its	inability	or	fail	generally
	
to	pay	its	debts	as	they	become	due;	
provided
	that	this	
clause	(j)
	shall	not	apply	to	Indebtedness	that	in	the	aggregate	does
	
not	constitute	Material	Indebtedness;
(k)	
one	or	more	final,	non-appealable	unsatisfied	judgments	for	the	payment	of	money	in	an	aggregate	amount
	
in	excess	of	$350,000,000	(or,	if	denominated	in	another	currency,	the	equivalent	thereof	in	Dollars)	not	covered	by
	
insurance	by	a	financially	solvent	insurance	company	that	has	not	denied	coverage	shall	be	rendered	against	the	Borrower,
	
any	Significant	Subsidiary	or	any	combination	thereof	and	the	same	shall	remain	unpaid	or	undischarged	for	a	period	of
	
sixty	(60)	consecutive	days	during	which	execution	shall	not	be	effectively	stayed,	vacated	or	bonded	pending	appeal	(it
	
being	understood	that,	notwithstanding	the	definition	of	“Default”,	no	“Default”	shall	be	triggered	solely	by	the	rendering
	
of	such	judgment	or	judgments	prior	to	the	commencement	of	enforcement	proceedings	or	the	lapse	of	such	sixty	(60)
	
consecutive	day	period	so	long	as	such	judgments	are	capable	of	satisfaction	by	payment	at	any	time);
(l)	
an	ERISA	Event	shall	have	occurred	that,	when	taken	together	with	all	other	ERISA	Events	that	have
	
occurred,	results	in	a	Material	Adverse	Effect;
	
(m)	
	a	Change	in	Control	shall	occur;	or
(n)	
the	Guarantee	Agreement	(or	the	Guarantees	thereunder),	once	executed,	shall	cease,	for	any	reason,	to	be
	
in	full	force	and	effect	or	any	Loan	Party	shall	so	assert	(excluding	release	of	any	Guarantor	from	its	guarantee	in
	
accordance	with	the	Loan	Documents);
then,	and	in	every	such	event	(other	than	an	event	with	respect	to	the	Borrower	described	in	
clauses	(h)
	or	
(i)
	of	this	
Section	7.01
),
	
and	at	any	time	thereafter	during	the	continuance	of	such	event,	the	Administrative	Agent	may	with	the	consent	of	the	Required
	
Lenders,	and	at	the	request	of	the	Required	Lenders	shall,	by	notice	to	the	Borrower,	take	either	or	both	of	the	following	actions,	at
	
the	same	or	different	times:		(i)	terminate	the	Commitments,	and	thereupon	the	Commitments	shall	terminate	immediately,	(ii)
	
declare	the	Loans	then	outstanding	to	be	due	and	payable	in	whole	(or	in	part,	in	which	case	any	principal	not	so	declared	to	be	due
	
and	payable	may	thereafter	be	declared	to	be	due	and	payable),	and	thereupon	the	principal	of	the	Loans	so	declared	to	be	due	and
	
payable,	together	with	accrued	interest	thereon	and	all	fees	and	other	obligations	of	the	Borrower	accrued	hereunder,	shall	become
	
due	and	payable	immediately,	without	presentment,	demand,	protest	or	other	notice	of	any	kind,	all	of	which	are	hereby	waived	by
	
the	Borrower,	(iii)	require	that	the	Borrower	provide	cash	collateral	as	required	in	
Section	2.06(j)
	and	(iv)	exercise	on	behalf	of
	
itself,	the	Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	all	rights	and	remedies	available	to	it,	the	Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	under	the	Loan
	
Documents	and	applicable	law;	and	in	case	of	any	event	with	respect	to	the	Borrower	described	in	
clauses	(h)
	or	
(i)
	of	this
	
83
	Section	7.01
,	the	Commitments	shall	automatically	terminate	and	the	principal	of	the	Loans	then	outstanding,	together	with
	
accrued	interest	thereon	and	all	fees	and	other	obligations	of	the	Borrower	accrued	hereunder,	shall	automatically	become	due	and
	
payable,	and	the	obligation	of	the	Borrower	to	cash	collateralize	the	LC	Exposure	as	provided	in	
clause	(iii)
	above	shall
	
automatically	become	effective,	in	each	case,	without	presentment,	demand,	protest	or	other	notice	of	any	kind,	all	of	which	are
	
hereby	waived	by	the	Borrower.
	
SECTION	7.02.		
Application	of	Payments
.		Notwithstanding	anything	herein	to	the	contrary,	following	the
	
occurrence	and	during	the	continuance	of	an	Event	of	Default,	and	notice	thereof	to	the	Administrative	Agent	by	the	Borrower	or
	
the	Required	Lenders,	all	payments	received	on	account	of	the	Obligations	shall,	subject	to	
Section	2.20
,	be	applied	by	the
	
Administrative	Agent	as	follows:
(i)	
first
,	to	payment	of	that	portion	of	the	Obligations	constituting	fees,	indemnities,	expenses	and	other
	
amounts	payable	to	the	Administrative	Agent	(including	fees	and	disbursements	and	other	charges	of	counsel	to	the
	
Administrative	Agent	payable	under	
Section	9.03
	and	amounts	pursuant	to	
Section	2.11(c)
	payable	to	the	Administrative
	
Agent	in	its	capacity	as	such);
(ii)	
second
,	to	payment	of	that	portion	of	the	Obligations	constituting	fees,	expenses,	indemnities	and	other
	
amounts	(other	than	principal,	reimbursement	obligations	in	respect	of	LC	Disbursements,	interest	and	Letter	of	Credit
	
fees)	payable	to	the	Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	(including	fees	and	disbursements	and	other	charges	of	counsel	to	the
	
Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	payable	under	
Section	9.03
)	arising	under	the	Loan	Documents,	ratably	among	them	in
	
proportion	to	the	respective	amounts	described	in	this	
clause	(ii)
	payable	to	them;
(iii)	
third
,	to	payment	of	that	portion	of	the	Obligations	constituting	accrued	and	unpaid	Letter	of	Credit	fees	and
	
charges	and	interest	on	the	Loans	and	unreimbursed	LC	Disbursements,	ratably	among	the	Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks
	
in	proportion	to	the	respective	amounts	described	in	this	
clause	(iii)
	payable	to	them;
(iv)	
fourth
,	(A)	to	payment	of	that	portion	of	the	Obligations	constituting	unpaid	principal	of	the	Loans	and
	
unreimbursed	LC	Disbursements	and	(B)	to	cash	collateralize	that	portion	of	LC	Exposure	comprising	the	undrawn	amount
	
of	Letters	of	Credit	to	the	extent	not	otherwise	cash	collateralized	by	the	Borrower	pursuant	to	
Section	2.04
	or	
Section
	
2.20
,	ratably	among	the	Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	in	proportion	to	the	respective	amounts	described	in	this	
clause
	
(iv)
	payable	to	them;	
provided
	that	(x)	any	such	amounts	applied	pursuant	to	
sub-clause	(B)
	above	shall	be	paid	to	the
	
Administrative	Agent	for	the	ratable	account	of	the	applicable	Issuing	Banks	to	cash	collateralize	Obligations	in	respect	of
	
Letters	of	Credit,	(y)	subject	to	
Section	2.04
	or	
Section	2.20
,	amounts	used	to	cash	collateralize	the	aggregate	amount	of
	
Letters	of	Credit	pursuant	to	this	
clause	(iv)
	shall	be	used	to	satisfy	drawings	under	such	Letters	of	Credit	as	they	occur
	
and	(z)	upon	the	expiration	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	(without	any	pending	drawings),	the	pro	rata	share	of	cash	collateral
	
shall	be	distributed	to	the	other	Obligations,	if	any,	in	the	order	set	forth	in	this	
Section	7.02
;
(v)	
fifth
,	to	the	payment	in	full	of	all	other	Obligations,	in	each	case	ratably	among	the	Administrative	Agent,	the
	
Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	based	upon	the	respective	aggregate	amounts	of	all	such	Obligations	owing	to	them	in
	
accordance	with	the	respective	amounts	thereof	then	due	and	payable;	and
(vi)	
finally
,	the	balance,	if	any,	after	all	Obligations	have	been	paid	in	full,	to	the	Borrower	or	as	otherwise
	
required	by	law.
84
	If	any	amount	remains	on	deposit	as	cash	collateral	after	all	Letters	of	Credit	have	either	been	fully	drawn	or	expired
	
(without	any	pending	drawings),	such	remaining	amount	shall	be	applied	to	the	other	Obligations,	if	any,	in	the	order	set	forth
	
above.
Article	VIII
The	Administrative	Agent
SECTION	8.01.		
Authorization	and	Action
.		Each	of	the	Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	hereby	irrevocably	appoints
	
the	Administrative	Agent	as	its	agent	and	authorizes	the	Administrative	Agent	to	take	such	actions	on	its	behalf	and	to	exercise
	
such	powers	as	are	delegated	to	the	Administrative	Agent	by	the	terms	hereof,	together	with	such	actions	and	powers	as	are
	
reasonably	incidental	thereto.
The	bank	serving	as	the	Administrative	Agent	hereunder	shall	have	the	same	rights	and	powers	in	its	capacity	as	a	Lender	or	as	an
	
Issuing	Bank	as	any	other	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	and	may	exercise	the	same	as	though	it	were	not	the	Administrative	Agent,	and
	
such	bank	and	its	Affiliates	may	accept	deposits	from,	lend	money	to	and	generally	engage	in	any	kind	of	business	with	the
	
Borrower	or	any	Subsidiary	or	other	Affiliate	thereof	as	if	it	were	not	the	Administrative	Agent	hereunder.
SECTION	8.02.		
Administrative	Agent’s	Reliance;	Limitation	of	Liability,	Etc
.		The	Administrative	Agent	shall	not
	
have	any	duties	or	obligations	except	those	expressly	set	forth	herein.		Without	limiting	the	generality	of	the	foregoing,	(a)	the
	
Administrative	Agent	shall	not	be	subject	to	any	fiduciary	or	other	implied	duties,	regardless	of	whether	a	Default	has	occurred	and
	
is	continuing,	(b)	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	not	have	any	duty	to	take	any	discretionary	action	or	exercise	any	discretionary
	
powers,	except	discretionary	rights	and	powers	expressly	contemplated	hereby	that	the	Administrative	Agent	is	required	to
	
exercise	in	writing	as	directed	by	the	Required	Lenders	or	such	other	number	or	percentage	of	the	Lenders	as	shall	be	necessary
	
under	the	circumstances	as	provided	in	
Section	9.02
	and	(c)	except	as	expressly	set	forth	herein,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	not
	
have	any	duty	to	disclose,	and	shall	not	be	liable	for	the	failure	to	disclose,	any	information	relating	to	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its
	
Subsidiaries	that	is	communicated	to	or	obtained	by	the	bank	serving	as	Administrative	Agent	or	any	of	its	Affiliates	in	any	capacity.
		
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	not	be	liable	for	any	action	taken	or	not	taken	by	it	with	the	consent	or	at	the	request	of	the
	
Required	Lenders	or	such	other	number	or	percentage	of	the	Lenders	as	shall	be	necessary	under	the	circumstances	as	provided	in
	
Section	9.02
,	or	in	the	absence	of	its	own	gross	negligence	or	willful	misconduct.		The	Administrative	Agent	shall	be	deemed	not	to
	
have	knowledge	of	any	Default	unless	and	until	written	notice	thereof	is	given	to	the	Administrative	Agent	by	the	Borrower,	a
	
Lender	or	an	Issuing	Bank,	and	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	not	be	responsible	for	or	have	any	duty	to	ascertain	or	inquire	into	(i)
	
any	statement,	warranty	or	representation	made	in	or	in	connection	with	this	Agreement,	(ii)	the	contents	of	any	certificate,	report
	
or	other	document	delivered	hereunder	or	in	connection	herewith,	(iii)	the	performance	or	observance	of	any	of	the	covenants,
	
agreements	or	other	terms	or	conditions	set	forth	herein,	(iv)	the	validity,	enforceability,	effectiveness	or	genuineness	of	this
	
Agreement	or	any	other	agreement,	instrument	or	document	or	(v)	the	satisfaction	of	any	condition	set	forth	in	
Article	IV
	or
	
elsewhere	herein,	other	than	to	confirm	receipt	of	items	expressly	required	to	be	delivered	to	the	Administrative	Agent.
		
The	Administrative	Agent	shall	be	entitled	to	rely	upon,	and	shall	not	incur	any	liability	for	relying	upon,	any
	
notice,	request,	certificate,	consent,	statement,	instrument,	document	or	other	writing	believed	by	it	to	be	genuine	and	to	have
	
been	signed	or	sent	by	the	proper	Person.		The	Administrative	Agent	also	may	rely	upon	any	statement	made	to	it	orally	or	by
	
telephone	and	believed	by	it	to	be	made	by	the	proper	Person,	and	shall	not	incur	any	liability	for	relying	thereon.		The
	
Administrative	Agent	may	consult	with	legal	counsel	(who	may	be	counsel	for	the	Borrower),
	
85
	independent	accountants	and	other	experts	selected	by	it,	and	shall	not	be	liable	for	any	action	taken	or	not	taken	by	it	in
	
accordance	with	the	advice	of	any	such	counsel,	accountants	or	experts.
The	Administrative	Agent	may	perform	any	and	all	its	duties	and	exercise	its	rights	and	powers	by	or	through	any
	
one	or	more	sub-agents	appointed	by	the	Administrative	Agent.		The	Administrative	Agent	and	any	such	sub-agent	may	perform	any
	
and	all	its	duties	and	exercise	its	rights	and	powers	through	their	respective	Related	Parties.		The	exculpatory	provisions	of	the
	
preceding	paragraphs	shall	apply	to	any	such	sub-agent	and	to	the	Related	Parties	of	the	Administrative	Agent	and	any	such	sub-
agent,	and	shall	apply	to	their	respective	activities	in	connection	with	the	syndication	of	the	credit	facilities	provided	for	herein	as
	
well	as	activities	as	Administrative	Agent.
SECTION	8.03.		
Successor	Administrative	Agent
.		Subject	to	the	appointment	and	acceptance	of	a	successor
	
Administrative	Agent	as	provided	in	this	
Section	8.03
,	the	Administrative	Agent	may	resign	at	any	time	by	notifying	the	Lenders,
	
the	Issuing	Banks	and	the	Borrower.		Upon	any	such	resignation,	the	Required	Lenders	shall	have	the	right,	in	consultation	with	the
	
Borrower,	to	appoint	from	among	the	Lenders	a	successor	reasonably	acceptable	to	the	Borrower	(except	that	the	Borrower’s
	
consent	shall	not	be	required	if	an	Event	of	Default	has	occurred	and	is	continuing).		If	no	successor	shall	have	been	so	appointed
	
by	the	Required	Lenders	and	shall	have	accepted	such	appointment	within	thirty	(30)	days	after	the	retiring	Administrative	Agent
	
gives	notice	of	its	resignation	(the	“
Resignation	Effective	Date
”),	then	the	retiring	Administrative	Agent	may,	on	behalf	of	the
	
Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks,	appoint	a	successor	Administrative	Agent	reasonably	acceptable	to	the	Borrower	(except	that	the
	
Borrower’s	consent	shall	not	be	required	if	an	Event	of	Default	has	occurred	and	is	continuing)	which	shall	be	a	bank	with	an	office
	
in	New	York,	New	York,	or	an	Affiliate	of	any	such	bank.		If	the	Person	serving	as	Administrative	Agent	is	a	Defaulting	Lender
	
pursuant	to	
clause	(e)
	of	the	definition	thereof,	the	Required	Lenders	may,	to	the	extent	permitted	by	applicable	law,	by	notice	in
	
writing	to	the	Borrower	and	such	Person,	remove	such	Person	as	Administrative	Agent	and,	in	consultation	with	the	Borrower,
	
appoint	a	successor.		If	no	such	successor	shall	have	been	so	appointed	by	the	Required	Lenders	and	shall	have	accepted	such
	
appointment	within	thirty	(30)	days	(or	such	earlier	day	as	shall	be	agreed	by	the	Required	Lenders)	(the	“
Removal	Effective
	
Date
”),	then	such	removal	shall	nonetheless	become	effective	in	accordance	with	such	notice	on	the	Removal	Effective	Date;
	
provided
	that	in	no	event	shall	any	such	successor	Administrative	Agent	be	a	Defaulting	Lender	or	a	Disqualified	Institution.		Upon
	
the	acceptance	of	its	appointment	as	Administrative	Agent	hereunder	by	a	successor,	such	successor	shall	succeed	to	and	become
	
vested	with	all	the	rights,	powers,	privileges	and	duties	of	the	retiring	or	removed	Administrative	Agent,	and	the	retiring	or
	
removed	Administrative	Agent	shall	be	discharged	from	its	duties	and	obligations	hereunder.		With	effect	from	the	Resignation
	
Effective	Date	or	the	Removal	Effective	Date	(as	applicable)	(1)	the	retiring	or	removed	Administrative	Agent	shall	be	discharged
	
from	its	duties	and	obligations	hereunder	and	(2)	except	for	any	indemnity	payments	owed	to	the	retiring	or	removed
	
Administrative	Agent,	all	payments,	communications	and	determinations	provided	to	be	made	by,	to	or	through	the	Administrative
	
Agent	shall	instead	be	made	by	or	to	each	Lender	or	each	Issuing	Bank	directly,	until	such	time,	if	any,	as	the	Required	Lenders
	
appoint	a	successor	Administrative	Agent	as	provided	for	above.		The	fees	payable	by	the	Borrower	to	a	successor	Administrative
	
Agent	shall	be	the	same	as	those	payable	to	its	predecessor	unless	otherwise	agreed	between	the	Borrower	and	such	successor.
		
After	the	Administrative	Agent’s	resignation	or	removal	hereunder,	the	provisions	of	this	
Article	VIII
	and	
Section	9.03
	shall
	
continue	in	effect	for	the	benefit	of	such	retiring	or	removed	Administrative	Agent,	its	sub‑agents	and	their	respective	Related
	
Parties	in	respect	of	any	actions	taken	or	omitted	to	be	taken	by	any	of	them	while	it	was	acting	as	Administrative	Agent.
SECTION	8.04.		
Acknowledgements	of	Lenders	and	Issuing	Banks
.		Each	Lender	and	each	Issuing	Bank
	
acknowledges	that	it	has,	independently	and	without	reliance	upon	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	other	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank
	
and	based	on	such	documents	and	information	as	it	has	deemed	appropriate,	made	its	own	credit	analysis	and	decision	to	enter	into
	
this	Agreement.		Each	Lender	and	each	Issuing	Bank	also	acknowledges	that	it	will,	independently	and	without	reliance	upon	the
	
Administrative	Agent	or	any	other	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	and	based	on	such	documents	and	information
	
86
	as	it	shall	from	time	to	time	deem	appropriate,	continue	to	make	its	own	decisions	in	taking	or	not	taking	action	under	or	based
	
upon	this	Agreement,	any	related	agreement	or	any	document	furnished	hereunder	or	thereunder.
SECTION	8.05.		
Certain	ERISA	Matters
.		Each	Lender	and	each	Issuing	Bank	(x)	represents	and	warrants,	as	of
	
the	date	such	Person	became	a	Lender	or	an	Issuing	Bank	party	hereto,	to	and	(y)	covenants,	from	the	date	such	Person	became	a
	
Lender	or	an	Issuing	Bank	party	hereto	to	the	date	such	Person	ceases	being	a	Lender	or	an	Issuing	Bank	party	hereto,	for	the
	
benefit	of,	the	Administrative	Agent,	and	each	Lead	Arranger	and	their	respective	Affiliates,	and	not,	for	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	to
	
or	for	the	benefit	of	the	Borrower,	that	at	least	one	of	the	following	is	and	will	be	true:
(i)	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	is	not	using	“plan	assets”	(within	the	meaning	of	the	Plan	Asset	Regulations)
	
of	one	or	more	Benefit	Plans	in	connection	with	the	Loans,	the	Letters	of	Credit	or	the	Commitments,
(ii)	the	transaction	exemption	set	forth	in	one	or	more	PTEs,	such	as	PTE	84-14	(a	class	exemption	for	certain
	
transactions	determined	by	independent	qualified	professional	asset	managers),	PTE	95-60	(a	class	exemption	for	certain
	
transactions	involving	insurance	company	general	accounts),	PTE	90-1	(a	class	exemption	for	certain	transactions	involving
	
insurance	company	pooled	separate	accounts),	PTE	91-38	(a	class	exemption	for	certain	transactions	involving	bank	collective
	
investment	funds)	or	PTE	96-23	(a	class	exemption	for	certain	transactions	determined	by	in-house	asset	managers),	is	applicable
	
with	respect	to	such	Lender’s	or	such	Issuing	Bank’s	entrance	into,	participation	in,	administration	of	and	performance	of	the
	
Loans,	the	Letters	of	Credit,	the	Commitments	and	this	Agreement,
(iii)	(A)	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	is	an	investment	fund	managed	by	a	“Qualified	Professional	Asset
	
Manager”	(within	the	meaning	of	Part	VI	of	PTE	84-14),	(B)	such	Qualified	Professional	Asset	Manager	made	the	investment
	
decision	on	behalf	of	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	to	enter	into,	participate	in,	administer	and	perform	the	Loans,	the	Letters
	
of	Credit,	the	Commitments	and	this	Agreement,	(C)	the	entrance	into,	participation	in,	administration	of	and	performance	of	the
	
Loans,	the	Letters	of	Credit,	the	Commitments	and	this	Agreement	satisfies	the	requirements	of	sub-sections	(b)	through	(g)	of	Part
	
I	of	PTE	84-14	and	(D)	to	the	best	knowledge	of	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank,	the	requirements	of	subsection	(a)	of	Part	I	of
	
PTE	84-14	are	satisfied	with	respect	to	such	Lender’s	or	such	Issuing	Bank’s	entrance	into,	participation	in,	administration	of	and
	
performance	of	the	Loans,	the	Letters	of	Credit,	the	Commitments	and	this	Agreement,	or
(iv)	such	other	representation,	warranty	and	covenant	as	may	be	agreed	in	writing	between	the	Administrative
	
Agent,	in	its	sole	discretion,	and	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank.
In	addition,	unless	
sub-clause	(i)
	in	the	immediately	preceding	paragraph	is	true	with	respect	to	a	Lender	or	an
	
Issuing	Bank	or	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	has	provided	another	representation,	warranty	and	covenant	as	provided	in	
sub-
clause	(iv)
	in	the	immediately	preceding	paragraph,	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	further	(x)	represents	and	warrants,	as	of	the
	
date	such	Person	became	a	Lender	or	an	Issuing	Bank	party	hereto,	to	and	(y)	covenants,	from	the	date	such	Person	became	a
	
Lender	or	an	Issuing	Bank	party	hereto	to	the	date	such	Person	ceases	being	a	Lender	or	an	Issuing	Bank	party	hereto,	for	the
	
benefit	of,	the	Administrative	Agent,	and	each	Lead	Arranger	and	their	respective	Affiliates,	and	not,	for	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	to
	
or	for	the	benefit	of	the	Borrower,	that	none	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	or	any	Lead	Arranger	or	any	of	their	respective	Affiliates
	
is	a	fiduciary	with	respect	to	the	assets	of	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	(including	in	connection	with	the	reservation	or
	
exercise	of	any	rights	by	the	Administrative	Agent	under	this	Agreement	or	any	documents	related	to	hereto	or	thereto).
87
	SECTION	8.06.		
No	Fiduciary	Duty
.		The	Administrative	Agent,	and	each	Lead	Arranger	hereby	informs	the
	
Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	that	each	such	Person	is	not	undertaking	to	provide	impartial	investment	advice,	or	to	give	advice	in
	
a	fiduciary	capacity,	in	connection	with	the	transactions	contemplated	hereby,	and	that	such	Person	has	a	financial	interest	in	the
	
transactions	contemplated	hereby	in	that	such	Person	or	an	Affiliate	thereof	(i)	may	receive	interest	or	other	payments	with	respect
	
to	the	Loans,	the	Commitments	and	this	Agreement,	(ii)	may	recognize	a	gain	if	it	extended	the	Loans	or	the	Commitments	for	an
	
amount	less	than	the	amount	being	paid	for	an	interest	in	the	Loans	or	the	Commitments	by	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	or
	
(iii)	may	receive	fees	or	other	payments	in	connection	with	the	transactions	contemplated	hereby	or	otherwise,	including
	
structuring	fees,	commitment	fees,	arrangement	fees,	facility	fees,	upfront	fees,	underwriting	fees,	ticking	fees,	agency	fees,
	
administrative	agent	or	collateral	agent	fees,	utilization	fees,	minimum	usage	fees,	letter	of	credit	fees,	fronting	fees,	deal-away	or
	
alternate	transaction	fees,	amendment	fees,	processing	fees,	term	out	premiums,	banker’s	acceptance	fees,	breakage	or	other	early
	
termination	fees	or	fees	similar	to	the	foregoing.
SECTION	8.07.		
Erroneous	Payments
.
		
(a)	
If	the	Administrative	Agent	(x)	notifies	a	Lender,	Issuing	Bank	or	any	Person	who	has	received	funds	on	behalf	of	a
	
Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	(any	such	Lender,	Issuing	Bank	or	other	recipient,	and	each	of	their	respective	successors	and	assigns,	a
	
“
Payment	Recipient
”)	that	the	Administrative	Agent	has	determined	in	its	sole	discretion	(whether	or	not	after	receipt	of	any	notice
	
under	immediately	succeeding	
clause	(b)
)	that	any	funds	(as	set	forth	in	such	notice	from	the	Administrative	Agent)	received	by
	
such	Payment	Recipient	from	the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	of	its	Affiliates	were	erroneously	or	mistakenly	transmitted	to,	or
	
otherwise	erroneously	or	mistakenly	received	by,	such	Payment	Recipient	(whether	or	not	known	to	such	Lender,	Issuing	Bank	or
	
other	Payment	Recipient	on	its	behalf)		(any	such	funds,	whether		transmitted	or	received	as	a	payment,	prepayment	or	repayment
	
of	principal,	interest,	fees,	distribution	or	otherwise,	individually	and	collectively,	an	“
Erroneous	Payment
”)	and	(y)	demands	in
	
writing	the	return	of	such	Erroneous	Payment	(or	a	portion	thereof),	such	Erroneous	Payment	shall	at	all	times	remain	the	property
	
of	the	Administrative	Agent	pending	its	return	or	repayment	as	contemplated	below	in	this	
Section	8.07
	and	held	in	trust	for	the
	
benefit	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	and	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	shall	(or,	with	respect	to	any	Payment	Recipient	who	received
	
such	funds	on	its	behalf,	shall	cause	such	Payment	Recipient	to)	promptly,	but	in	no	event	later	than	two	(2)	Business	Days
	
thereafter	(or	such	later	date	as	the	Administrative	Agent	may,	in	its	sole	discretion,	specify	in	writing),	return	to	the	Administrative
	
Agent	the	amount	of	any	such	Erroneous	Payment	(or	portion	thereof)	as	to	which	such	a	demand	was	made,	in	same	day	funds	(in
	
the	currency	so	received),	together	with	interest	thereon	(except	to	the	extent	waived	in	writing	by	the	Administrative	Agent)	in
	
respect	of	each	day	from	and	including	the	date	such	Erroneous	Payment	(or	portion	thereof)	was	received	by	such	Payment
	
Recipient	to	the	date	such	amount	is	repaid	to	the	Administrative	Agent	in	same	day	funds	at	the	greater	of	the	Overnight	Rate	and
	
a	rate	determined	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	accordance	with	banking	industry	rules	on	interbank	compensation	from	time	to
	
time	in	effect.	A	notice	of	the	Administrative	Agent	to	any	Payment	Recipient	under	this	
clause	(a)
	shall	be	conclusive,	absent
	
manifest	error.
88
	(b)	
Without	limiting	the	immediately	preceding	
clause	(a)
,	each	Payment	Recipient	(and	each	of	their	respective
	
successors	and	assigns)	agrees	that	if	it	receives	a	payment,	prepayment	or	repayment	(whether	received	as	a	payment,
	
prepayment	or	repayment	of	principal,	interest,	fees,	distribution	or	otherwise)	from	the	Administrative	Agent	(or	any	of	its
	
Affiliates)	(x)	that	is	in	a	different	amount	than,	or	on	a	different	date	from,	that	specified	in	this	Agreement	or	in	a	notice	of
	
payment,	prepayment	or	repayment	sent	by	the	Administrative	Agent	(or	any	of	its	Affiliates)	with	respect	to	such	payment,
	
prepayment	or	repayment,	(y)	that	was	not	preceded	or	accompanied	by	a	notice	of	payment,	prepayment	or	repayment	sent	by	the
	
Administrative	Agent	(or	any	of	its	Affiliates)	or	(z)	that	such	Payment	Recipient	otherwise	becomes	aware	was	transmitted,	or
	
received,	in	error	or	by	mistake	(in	whole	or	in	part),	then	in	each	such	case:
(i)	it	acknowledges	and	agrees	that	(A)	in	the	case	of	immediately	preceding	
clauses	(x)
	or	
(y)
,	an	error	and
	
mistake	shall	be	presumed	to	have	been	made	(absent	written	confirmation	from	the	Administrative	Agent	to	the	contrary)
	
or	(B)	an	error	and	mistake	has	been	made	(in	the	case	of	immediately	preceding	
clause	(z)
),	in	each	case,	with	respect	to
	
such	payment,	prepayment	or	repayment;	and
(ii)	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	shall	(and	shall	cause	any	other	recipient	that	receives	funds	on	its	respective
	
behalf	to)	promptly	(and,	in	all	events,	within	one	(1)	Business	Day	of	its	knowledge	of	the	occurrence	of	any	of	the
	
circumstances	described	in	immediately	preceding	
clauses	(x)
,	
(y)
	and	
(z)
)	notify	the	Administrative	Agent	of	its	receipt	of
	
such	payment,	prepayment	or	repayment,	the	details	thereof	(in	reasonable	detail)	and	that	it	is	so	notifying	the
	
Administrative	Agent	pursuant	to	this	
Section	8.07(b)
.
For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	the	failure	to	deliver	a	notice	to	the	Administrative	Agent	pursuant	to	this	
Section	8.07(b)
	shall	not	have
	
any	effect	on	a	Payment	Recipient’s	obligations	pursuant	to	
Section	8.07(a)
	or	on	whether	or	not	an	Erroneous	Payment	has	been
	
made.
(c)	
Each	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	hereby	authorizes	the	Administrative	Agent	to	set	off,	net	and	apply	any	and	all	amounts
	
at	any	time	owing	to	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	under	any	Loan	Document,	or	otherwise	payable	or	distributable	by	the
	
Administrative	Agent	to	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank	under	any	Loan	Document	with	respect	to	any	payment	of	principal,	interest,
	
fees	or	other	amounts,	against	any	amount	that	the	Administrative	Agent	has	demanded	to	be	returned	under	the	immediately
	
preceding	
clause	(a)
.
(d)	
In	the	event	that	an	Erroneous	Payment	(or	portion	thereof)	is	not	recovered	by	the	Administrative	Agent	for	any
	
reason,	after	demand	therefor	in	accordance	with	immediately	preceding	
clause	(a)
,	from	any	Lender	that	has	received	such
	
Erroneous	Payment	(or	portion	thereof)	(and/or	from	any	Payment	Recipient	who	received	such	Erroneous	Payment	(or	portion
	
thereof)	on	its	respective	behalf)		(such	unrecovered	amount,	an	“
Erroneous	Payment	Return	Deficiency
”),	upon	the	Administrative
	
Agent’s	notice	to	such	Lender	at	any	time,	then	effective	immediately	(with	the	consideration	therefor	being	acknowledged	by	the
	
parties	hereto),	(A)	such	Lender	shall	be	deemed	to	have	assigned	its	Loans	(but	not	its	Commitments)	with	respect	to	which	such
	
Erroneous	Payment	was	made	(the	“
Erroneous	Payment	Impacted	Class
”)	in	an	amount	equal	to	the	Erroneous	Payment	Return
	
Deficiency	(or	such	lesser	amount	as	the	Administrative	Agent	may	specify)	(such	assignment	of	the	Loans	(but	not	Commitments)
	
of	the	Erroneous	Payment	Impacted	Class,	the	“
Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment
”)	(on	a	cashless	basis	and	such	amount
	
calculated	at	par	plus	any	accrued	and	unpaid	interest	(with	the	assignment	fee	to	be	waived	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	such
	
instance)),	and	is	hereby	(together	with	the	Borrower)	deemed	to	execute	and	deliver	an	Assignment	and	Assumption	(or,	to	the
	
extent	applicable,	an	agreement	incorporating	an	Assignment	and	Assumption	by	reference	pursuant	to	an	Approved	Electronic
	
Platform	as	to	which	the	Administrative	Agent	and	such	parties	are	participants)
	
89
	with	respect	to	such	Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment,	and	such	Lender		shall	deliver	any	Notes	evidencing	such	Loans	to
	
the	Borrower	or	the	Administrative	Agent	(but	the	failure	of	such	Person	to	deliver	any	such	Notes	shall	not	affect	the	effectiveness
	
of	the	foregoing	assignment),	(B)	the	Administrative	Agent	as	the	assignee	Lender	shall	be	deemed	to	have	acquired	the	Erroneous
	
Payment	Deficiency	Assignment,	(C)	upon	such	deemed	acquisition,	the	Administrative	Agent	as	the	assignee	Lender	shall	become
	
a	Lender,	as	applicable,	hereunder	with	respect	to	such	Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment	and	the	assigning	Lender	shall
	
cease	to	be	a	Lender,	as	applicable,	hereunder	with	respect	to	such	Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment,	excluding,	for	the
	
avoidance	of	doubt,	its	obligations	under	the	indemnification	provisions	of	this	Agreement	and	its	applicable	Commitments	which
	
shall	survive	as	to	such	assigning	Lender,	(D)	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	Borrower	shall	each	be	deemed	to	have	waived	any
	
consents	required	under	this	Agreement	to	any	such	Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment	and	(E)	the	Administrative	Agent
	
will	reflect	in	the	Register	its	ownership	interest	in	the	Loans	subject	to	the	Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment.	For	the
	
avoidance	of	doubt,	no	Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment	will	reduce	the	Commitments	of	any	Lender	and	such
	
Commitments	shall	remain	available	in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	this	Agreement.
	
(e)	
Subject	to	
Section	9.04
	(but	excluding,	in	all	events,	any	assignment	consent	or	approval	requirements	(whether	from
	
the	Borrower	or	otherwise)),	the	Administrative	Agent	may,	in	its	discretion,	sell	any	Loans	acquired	pursuant	to	an	Erroneous
	
Payment	Deficiency	Assignment	and	upon	receipt	of	the	proceeds	of	such	sale,	the	Erroneous	Payment	Return	Deficiency	owing	by
	
the	applicable	Lender	shall	be	reduced	by	the	net	proceeds	of	the	sale	of	such	Loan	(or	portion	thereof),	and	the	Administrative
	
Agent	shall	retain	all	other	rights,	remedies	and	claims	against	such	Lender	(and/or	against	any	recipient	that	receives	funds	on	its
	
respective	behalf).	In	addition,	an	Erroneous	Payment	Return	Deficiency	owing	by	the	applicable	Lender	(x)	shall	be	reduced	by	the
	
proceeds	of	prepayments	or	repayments	of	principal	and	interest,	or	other	distribution	in	respect	of	principal	and	interest,	received
	
by	the	Administrative	Agent	on	or	with	respect	to	any	such	Loans	acquired	from	such	Lender	pursuant	to	an	Erroneous	Payment
	
Deficiency	Assignment	(to	the	extent	that	any	such	Loans	are	then	owned	by	the	Administrative	Agent)	and	(y)	may,	in	the	sole
	
discretion	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	be	reduced	by	any	amount	specified	by	the	Administrative	Agent	in	writing	to	the	applicable
	
Lender	from	time	to	time.
(f)	
The	parties	hereto	agree	that	(x)	irrespective	of	whether	the	Administrative	Agent	may	be	equitably	subrogated,	in
	
the	event	that	an	Erroneous	Payment	(or	portion	thereof)	is	not	recovered	from	any	Payment	Recipient	that	has	received	such
	
Erroneous	Payment	(or	portion	thereof)	for	any	reason,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	be	subrogated	to	all	the	rights	and	interests
	
of	such	Payment	Recipient	(and,	in	the	case	of	any	Payment	Recipient	who	has	received	funds	on	behalf	of	a	Lender	or	Issuing
	
Bank,	to	the	rights	and	interests	of	such	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank,	as	the	case	may	be)	under	the	Loan	Documents	with	respect	to
	
such	amount	(the	“
Erroneous	Payment	Subrogation	Rights
”)	(
provided
	that	the	Loan	Parties’	Obligations	under	the	Loan
	
Documents	in	respect	of	the	Erroneous	Payment	Subrogation	Rights	shall	not	be	duplicative	of	such	Obligations	in	respect	of	Loans
	
that	have	been	assigned	to	the	Administrative	Agent	under	an	Erroneous	Payment	Deficiency	Assignment)	and	(y)	an	Erroneous
	
Payment	shall	not	pay,	prepay,	repay,	discharge	or	otherwise	satisfy	any	Obligations	owed	by	the	Borrower	or	any	other	Loan	Party;
	
provided
	
that	for	the	immediately	preceding	
clauses	(x)
	and	
(y)
	shall	not	apply	to	the	extent	any	such	Erroneous	Payment	is,	and
	
solely	with	respect	to	the	amount	of	such	Erroneous	Payment	that	is,	comprised	of	funds	received	by	the	Administrative	Agent	from
	
the	Borrower	for	the	purpose	of	making	such	Erroneous	Payment.	Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	set	forth	herein,	this
	
Section	8.07
	shall	not	be	interpreted	to	increase	(or	accelerate	the	due	date	for),	or	have	the	effect	of	increasing	(or	accelerating
	
the	due	date	for),	the	Obligations	of	the	Borrower	relative	to	the	amount	(and/or	timing	for	payment)	of	the	Obligations	that	would
	
have	been	payable	had	such	Erroneous	Payment	not	been	made	by	the	Administrative	Agent.
90
	(g)	
To	the	extent	permitted	by	applicable	law,	no	Payment	Recipient	shall	assert	any	right	or	claim	to		an	Erroneous
	
Payment,	and	hereby	waives,	and	is	deemed	to	waive,	any	claim,	counterclaim,	defense	or	right	of	set-off	or	recoupment	with
	
respect	to	any	demand,	claim	or	counterclaim	by	the	Administrative	Agent	for	the	return	of	any	Erroneous	Payment	received,
	
including,	without	limitation,	any	defense	based	on	“discharge	for	value”	or	any	similar	doctrine.
(h)	
Each	party’s	obligations,	agreements	and	waivers	under	this	
Section	8.07
	shall	survive	the	resignation	or	replacement
	
of	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	transfer	of	rights	or	obligations	by,	or	the	replacement	of,	a	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank,
	
the
	
termination	of	the	Commitments	and/or	the	repayment,	satisfaction	or	discharge	of	all	Obligations	(or	any	portion	thereof)	under
	
any	Loan	Document.
Article	IX
Miscellaneous
SECTION	9.01.		
Notices
.		(a)		Except	in	the	case	of	notices	and	other	communications	expressly	permitted	to	be
	
given	by	telephone	(and	subject	to	
paragraph	(b)
	below),	all	notices	and	other	communications	provided	for	herein	shall	be	in
	
writing	and	shall	be	delivered	by	hand	or	overnight	courier	service,	mailed	by	certified	or	registered	mail	or	sent	by	electronic	mail
	
(or	in	any	other	manner	approved	pursuant	to	
Section	9.01(b)
),	as	follows:
(i)	if	to	the	Borrower,	to	1	Tesla	Road,	Austin,	TX	78725,	Attention:	General	Counsel,	with	a	copy	to	3500	Deer
	
Creek	Road,	Palo	Alto,	CA	94304,	Attention:	Legal,	Finance,	with	a	copy	to	the	electronic	mail	address	of	the	Borrower	on
	
file	with	the	Administrative	Agent;
with	a	copy	(which	shall	not	constitute	notice	to	any	Loan	Party)	to	Skadden,	Arps,	Slate	Meagher	&	Flom	LLP,
	
One	Manhattan	West,	New	York,	New	York	10010,	Attention:	Steven	Messina;	Email:
	
steven.messina@skadden.com;	Fax:	917-777-3509;
(ii)	if	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	to	Citibank	Delaware	at	One	Penn’s	Way,	OPS	II,	New	Castle,	DE	19720,	Attn:
	
Agency	Operations,	Phone:	(302)	894-6010,	Fax:	(646)	274-5080,	Borrower	inquiries	only:	AgencyABTFSupport@citi.com,
	
Borrower	notifications:	GlAgentOfficeOps@Citi.com;	and
(iii)	if	to	an	Issuing	Bank,	to	it	at	its	address	(or	facsimile	number)	on	file	with	the	Administrative	Agent;	and
(iv)	if	to	any	other	Lender,	to	it	at	its	address	(or	facsimile	number)	set	forth	in	its	Administrative	Questionnaire.
(b)	
Notices	and	other	communications	to	the	Lenders	and	the	Issuing	Banks	hereunder	may	be	delivered	or
	
(other	than	service	of	process)	furnished	by	electronic	communications	pursuant	to	procedures	approved	by	the	Administrative
	
Agent;	
provided
	that	the	foregoing	shall	not	apply	to	service	of	process	or	to	notices	pursuant	to	
Article	II
	unless	otherwise	agreed
	
by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	the	applicable	Lender.		The	Administrative	Agent	or	the	Borrower	may,	in	its	discretion,	agree	to
	
accept	notices	and	other	communications	to	it	hereunder	by	electronic	communications	pursuant	to	procedures	approved	by	it;
	
provided
	that	approval	of	such	procedures	may	be	limited	to	particular	notices	or	communications.		All	notices	concerning
	
Borrowings	in	the	Funding	Office	or	any	matter	arising	in	connection	therewith	will	be	required	to	be	given	at	the	address	set	forth
	
in	
Section	9.01(a)(ii)
	(in	each	case,	subject	to	
Section	9.01(c)
).
91
	(c)	
Any	party	hereto	may	change	its	address	or	facsimile	number	for	notices	and	other	communications
	
hereunder	by	notice	to	the	other	parties	hereto.		All	notices	and	other	communications	given	to	any	party	hereto	in	accordance	with
	
the	provisions	of	this	Agreement	shall	be	deemed	to	have	been	given	on	the	date	of	receipt.
(d)	
Notices	sent	by	hand	or	overnight	courier	service,	or	mailed	by	certified	or	registered	mail,	shall	be	deemed
	
to	have	been	given	when	received;	notices	sent	by	fax	shall	be	deemed	to	have	been	given	when	sent	(except	that,	if	not	given
	
during	normal	business	hours	for	the	recipient,	shall	be	deemed	to	have	been	given	at	the	opening	of	business	on	the	next	business
	
day	for	the	recipient);	and	notices	and	other	communications	sent	to	an	e-mail	address	shall	be	deemed	received	upon	the	sender’s
	
receipt	of	an	acknowledgement	from	the	intended	recipient	(such	as	by	the	“return	receipt	requested”	function,	as	available,	return
	
e-mail	or	other	written	acknowledgement),	and	notices	or	communications	posted	to	an	Internet	or	intranet	website	to	the	extent
	
provided	in	
paragraph	(b)
	above	shall	be	deemed	received	upon	the	deemed	receipt	by	the	intended	recipient,	at	its	e-mail	address
	
as	described	above,	of	notification	that	such	notice	or	communication	is	available	and	identifying	the	website	address	therefor;
	
provided
	that,	in	each	case,	if	such	e-mail	is	not	sent	during	the	normal	business	hours	of	the	recipient,	such	notice	or
	
communication	shall	be	deemed	to	have	been	sent	at	the	opening	of	business	on	the	next	business	day	for	the	recipient.
SECTION	9.02.		
Waivers;	Amendments
.		(a)		No	failure	or	delay	by	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Issuing	Bank	or
	
any	Lender	in	exercising	any	right	or	power	hereunder	shall	operate	as	a	waiver	thereof,	nor	shall	any	single	or	partial	exercise	of
	
any	such	right	or	power,	or	any	abandonment	or	discontinuance	of	steps	to	enforce	such	a	right	or	power,	preclude	any	other	or
	
further	exercise	thereof	or	the	exercise	of	any	other	right	or	power.		The	rights	and	remedies	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	the
	
Issuing	Banks	and	the	Lenders	hereunder	are	cumulative	and	are	not	exclusive	of	any	rights	or	remedies	that	they	would	otherwise
	
have.		No	waiver	of	any	provision	of	this	Agreement	or	consent	to	any	departure	by	the	Borrower	therefrom	shall	in	any	event	be
	
effective	unless	the	same	shall	be	permitted	by	
Section	9.02(b)
,	and	then	such	waiver	or	consent	shall	be	effective	only	in	the
	
specific	instance	and	for	the	purpose	for	which	given.		Without	limiting	the	generality	of	the	foregoing,	the	making	of	a	Loan	or
	
issuance	of	a	Letter	of	Credit	shall	not	be	construed	as	a	waiver	of	any	Default,	regardless	of	whether	the	Administrative	Agent,	any
	
Issuing	Bank	or	any	Lender	may	have	had	notice	or	knowledge	of	such	Default	at	the	time.
(b)	
Neither	this	Agreement	nor	any	provision	hereof	may	be	waived,	amended	or	modified	except	pursuant	to	an
	
agreement	or	agreements	in	writing	entered	into	by	the	Borrower	and	the	Required	Lenders	or	by	the	Borrower	and	the
	
Administrative	Agent	with	the	consent	of	the	Required	Lenders	(it	being	understood	that	amendments	or	waivers	of	conditions
	
precedent,	representations,	covenants,	Defaults	or	Events	of	Default	shall	not	constitute	an	increase	in	the	Commitment	of	any
	
Lender)	or	by	an	agreement	in	writing	entered	into	by	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent	to	cure	any	ambiguity,	omission,
	
defect,	mistake	or	inconsistency	so	long	as	the	Lenders	shall	have	received	at	least	five	(5)	Business	Days’	prior	written	notice
	
thereof	and	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	not	have	received,	within	five	(5)	Business	Days	of	the	date	of	such	notice	to	the
	
Lenders,	a	written	notice	from	the	Required	Lenders	stating	that	the	Required	Lenders	object	to	such	amendment;	
provided
	that	no
	
such	agreement	shall	(i)	increase	the	Commitment	of	any	Lender	without	the	written	consent	of	such	Lender,	(ii)	reduce	the
	
principal	amount	of	any	Loan	or	LC	Disbursement	or	reduce	the	rate	of	interest	thereon,	or	reduce	any	fees	payable	hereunder,
	
without	the	written	consent	of	each	Lender	adversely	affected	thereby	(it	being	understood	that	any	amendment,	modification	or
	
waiver	to	
Section	2.12(e)
	shall	not	be	subject	to	this	
clause	(ii)
),	(iii)	postpone	the	final	maturity	date	of	any	Loan,	or	postpone	the
	
scheduled	date	of	payment	of	any	principal,	interest	or	fees	payable	hereunder,	or	reduce	the	amount	of,	waive	or	excuse	any	such
	
payment,	or	postpone	the	scheduled	date	of	expiration	of	any	Commitment,	without	the	written	consent	of	each	Lender	adversely
	
affected	thereby,	(iv)	change	any	of	the	provisions	of	this	
Section	9.02
92
		or	the	definition	of	“Required	Lenders”,	“Applicable	Percentage”	or	any	other	provision	hereof	specifying	the	number	or
	
percentage	of	Lenders	required	to	waive,	amend	or	modify	any	rights	hereunder	or	make	any	determination	or	grant	any	consent
	
hereunder,	without	the	written	consent	of	each	Lender,	(v)	change	the	last	sentence	of	
Section	2.08(c)
	or	change	
Section	2.17
	or
	
Section	7.02
	in	a	manner	that	would	alter	the	pro	rata	sharing	of	payments	required	thereby	among	Lenders,	without	the	written
	
consent	of	each	such	Lender	adversely	affected	thereby,	(vi)	release	all	or	substantially	all	of	the	(a)	Guarantors	from	their
	
obligations	under	the	Guarantee	Agreement	or	(b)	value	of	the	Guarantees	in	respect	of	the	Obligations,	in	each	case,	other	than	in
	
connection	with	a	transaction	or	series	of	transactions	not	prohibited	by	this	Agreement	without	the	written	consent	of	all	Lenders,
	
(viii)	add	any	Foreign	Currencies	to	the	Facility	without	the	written	consent	of	each	Lender	directly	affected	thereby	or	(ix)	consent
	
to	the	release,	assignment	or	transfer	by	any	Loan	Party	of	any	of	its	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement	other	than	in
	
connection	with	a	transaction	or	series	of	transactions	not	prohibited	by	this	Agreement	without	the	written	consent	of	all	Lenders;
	
provided
,	
further
,	that	no	such	agreement	shall	amend,	modify	or	otherwise	affect	the	rights	or	duties	of	the	Administrative	Agent
	
or	the	Issuing	Banks	hereunder	without	the	prior	written	consent	of	the	Administrative	Agent	or	the	applicable	Issuing	Banks,	as
	
the	case	may	be;	
provided
,	
further
,	that	no	such	agreement	shall	amend	or	modify	the	provisions	of	
Section	2.04
	or	any	letter	of
	
credit	application	and	any	bilateral	agreement	between	the	Borrower	and	an	Issuing	Bank	regarding	such	Issuing	Bank’s	Letter	of
	
Credit	Commitment	or	the	respective	rights	and	obligations	between	the	Borrower	and	an	Issuing	Bank	in	connection	with	the
	
issuance	of	Letters	of	Credit	without	the	prior	written	consent	of	such	Issuing	Bank.	Notwithstanding	the	foregoing,	no	consent
	
with	respect	to	any	amendment,	waiver	or	other	modification	of	this	Agreement	shall	be	required	of	any	Defaulting	Lender,	except
	
with	respect	to	any	amendment,	waiver	or	other	modification	referred	to	in	
sub-clauses	(i)
,	
(ii)
	or	
(iii)
	of	the	first	proviso	of	this
	
paragraph	(b)
	and	then	only	in	the	event	such	Defaulting	Lender	shall	be	directly	affected	by	such	amendment,	waiver	or	other
	
modification.
SECTION	9.03.		
Expenses;	Indemnity;	Damage	Waiver
.		(a)		The	Borrower	shall	pay,	and	without	duplication,	(i)
	
except	as	otherwise	agreed,	all	reasonable	and	documented	out-of-pocket	expenses	incurred	by	the	Administrative	Agent,	the
	
Syndication	Agent,	the	Lead	Arrangers	and	the	Documentation	Agents,	limited,	in	the	case	of	legal	fees,	to	the	reasonable	fees,
	
charges	and	disbursements	of	a	single	counsel	(and,	if	reasonably	necessary,	a	single	local	counsel	in	each	relevant	material
	
jurisdiction	(which	may	be	a	single	local	counsel	acting	in	multiple	material	jurisdictions))	for	the	Administrative	Agent,	but
	
excluding	Taxes,	which	are	covered	by	
Section	2.16
,	in	connection	with	the	administration	of	this	Agreement	or	any	amendments,
	
modifications	or	waivers	of	the	provisions	hereof	(whether	or	not	the	transactions	contemplated	thereby	shall	be	consummated),	(ii)
	
all	reasonable	and	documented	out-of-pocket	expenses	incurred	by	an	Issuing	Bank	in	connection	with	the	issuance,	amendment,
	
renewal	or	extension	of	any	Letter	of	Credit	or	any	demand	for	payment	thereunder	and	(iii)	all	reasonable	and	documented	out-of-
pocket	expenses	incurred	by	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	Issuing	Banks,	the	Syndication	Agent,	the	Documentation	Agents	and
	
the	Lenders	(limited,	in	the	case	of	legal	fees,	to	the	reasonable	and	documented	fees	and	disbursements	and	other	charges	of	one
	
counsel	for	all	such	Persons	taken	as	a	whole	and,	if	reasonably	necessary,	a	single	local	counsel	for	all	such	Persons	taken	as	a
	
whole	in	each	relevant	material	jurisdiction	(which	may	be	a	single	local	counsel	acting	in	multiple	material	jurisdictions)	and,
	
solely	in	the	case	of	an	actual	or	perceived	conflict	of	interest	between	such	Person	where	the	Persons	affected	by	such	conflict
	
inform	the	Borrower	of	such	conflict,	one	additional	counsel	and	one	additional	local	counsel	in	each	relevant	material	jurisdiction
	
to	each	group	of	affected	Persons	similarly	situated	taken	as	a	whole),	but	excluding	Taxes	which	are	covered	by	
Section	2.16
,	in
	
connection	with	the	enforcement	of	this	Agreement	or	any	agreement	or	instrument	contemplated	hereby.
		
(b)	
The	Borrower	shall	indemnify	the	Administrative	Agent,	each	Issuing	Bank,	each	Lender,	each	Lead
	
Arranger,	the	Syndication	Agent,	each	Documentation	Agent	and	each	Related	Party	of	any	of	the	foregoing	Persons	(each	such
	
Person	being	called	an	“
Indemnitee
”)	against,	and	hold	each
	
93
	Indemnitee	harmless	from,	any	and	all	losses,	claims,	damages,	liabilities	and	related	expenses	(limited,	in	the	case	of	legal	fees,	to
	
the	reasonable	and	documented	fees	and	disbursements	and	other	charges	of	one	counsel	for	all	Indemnitees	taken	as	a	whole	and,
	
if	reasonably	necessary,	a	single	local	counsel	for	all	Indemnitees	taken	as	a	whole	in	each	relevant	material	jurisdiction	(which
	
may	be	a	single	local	counsel	acting	in	multiple	material	jurisdictions)	and,	solely	in	the	case	of	an	actual	or	perceived	conflict	of
	
interest	between	Indemnitees	where	the	Indemnitees	affected	by	such	conflict	inform	the	Borrower	of	such	conflict,	one	additional
	
counsel	and	one	additional	local	counsel	in	each	relevant	material	jurisdiction	to	each	group	of	affected	Indemnitees	similarly
	
situated	taken	as	a	whole),	but	excluding	Taxes,	which	are	covered	by	
Section	2.16
,	incurred	by	or	asserted	against	any	Indemnitee
	
arising	out	of	or	as	a	result	of	(i)	the	execution	or	delivery	of	this	Agreement	or	any	agreement	or	instrument	contemplated	hereby,
	
the	performance	by	the	parties	hereto	of	their	respective	obligations	hereunder	or	the	consummation	of	the	Transactions	or	any
	
other	transactions	contemplated	hereby,	(ii)	any	Loan	or	Letter	of	Credit	or	the	use	of	the	proceeds	therefrom	(including	any
	
refusal	by	an	Issuing	Bank	to	honor	a	demand	for	payment	under	a	Letter	of	Credit	if	the	documents	presented	in	connection	with
	
such	demand	do	not	strictly	comply	with	the	terms	of	such	Letter	of	Credit),	(iii)	any	actual	or	alleged	presence	or	release	of
	
Hazardous	Materials	on	or	from	any	property	owned	or	operated	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries,	or	any	Environmental
	
Liability	related	in	any	way	to	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries	or	(iv)	any	actual	or	prospective	claim,	litigation,	investigation
	
or	proceeding	relating	to	any	of	the	foregoing,	whether	based	on	contract,	tort	or	any	other	theory	and	regardless	of	whether	any
	
Indemnitee	is	a	party	thereto	and	regardless	of	whether	such	claim,	litigation,	investigation	or	proceeding	is	brought	by	the
	
Borrower	or	any	other	party;	
provided
	that	such	indemnity	shall	not,	as	to	any	Indemnitee,	be	available	to	the	extent	that	such
	
losses,	claims,	damages,	liabilities	or	related	expenses	are	determined	by	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	by	final	and	non-
appealable	judgment	to	have	resulted	from	the	gross	negligence,	bad	faith	or	material	breach	by	such	Indemnitee	or	any	of	its
	
Related	Parties	of	such	Person’s	obligations	under	this	Agreement,	or	willful	misconduct	of	such	Indemnitee	or	any	of	its	Related
	
Parties	and	that	no	Lender	shall	be	entitled	to	indemnification	with	respect	to	any	losses,	claims,	damages,	liabilities	or	related
	
expenses	arising	out	of	a	dispute	between	such	Lender	and	its	assignees	or	Participants	or	solely	between	Lenders	(other	than
	
disputes	resulting	from	an	act	or	material	omission	by	the	Borrower	or	any	Subsidiary	in	violation	of	this	Agreement).
(c)	
To	the	extent	that	the	Borrower	fails	to	pay	any	amount	required	to	be	paid	by	it	to	the	Administrative	Agent
	
under	
Sections	9.03(a)
	or	
(b)
,	each	Lender	severally	agrees	to	pay	to	the	Administrative	Agent	such	Lender’s	Applicable	Percentage
	
(determined	as	of	the	time	that	the	applicable	unreimbursed	expense	or	indemnity	payment	is	sought)	of	such	unpaid	amount;
	
provided
	that	the	unreimbursed	expense	or	indemnified	loss,	claim,	damage,	liability	or	related	expense,	as	the	case	may	be,	was
	
incurred	by	or	asserted	against	the	Administrative	Agent	in	its	capacity	as	such.
(d)	
To	the	extent	permitted	by	applicable	law	(i)	no	party	hereto	shall	assert,	and	each	such	party	hereto	hereby
	
waives,	any	claim	against	any	other	party	hereto	for	any	damages	arising	from	the	use	by	others	of	information	or	other	materials
	
obtained	through	telecommunications,	electronic	or	other	information	transmission	systems	(including	the	Internet)	and	(ii)	no
	
party	hereto	shall	assert,	and	each	such	party	hereby	waives,	any	claim	against	any	other	party	hereto,	on	any	theory	of	liability,	for
	
special,	indirect,	consequential	or	punitive	damages	(as	opposed	to	direct	or	actual	damages)	arising	out	of,	in	connection	with,	or
	
as	a	result	of,	this	Agreement,	any	other	Loan	Document,	or	any	agreement	or	instrument	contemplated	hereby	or	thereby,	the
	
Transactions,	any	Loan	or	Letter	of	Credit	or	the	use	of	the	proceeds	thereof;	
provided
	that	nothing	in	this	
clause	(d)(ii)
	shall	relieve
	
the	Borrower	of	any	obligation	it	may	have	to	indemnify	an	Indemnitee	against	special,	indirect,	consequential	or	punitive	damages
	
asserted	against	such	Indemnitee	by	a	third	party	as	set	forth	in	clause	(a)	above).
94
	(e)	
All	amounts	due	under	this	
Section	9.03
	shall	be	payable	not	later	than	thirty	(30)	days	after	written	demand
	
therefor,	except	where	the	validity	or	amount	thereof	is	being	contested	in	good	faith	in	appropriate	proceedings	by	the	Borrower.
SECTION	9.04.		
Successors	and	Assigns
.		(a)		The	provisions	of	this	Agreement	shall	be	binding	upon	and	inure	to
	
the	benefit	of	the	parties	hereto	and	their	respective	successors	and	assigns	permitted	hereby	(including	any	Affiliate	of	an	Issuing
	
Bank	that	issues	any	Letter	of	Credit),	except	that	(i)	the	Borrower	may	not	assign	or	otherwise	transfer	any	of	its	rights	or
	
obligations	hereunder	without	the	prior	written	consent	of	each	Lender	(and	any	attempted	assignment	or	transfer	by	the	Borrower
	
without	such	consent	shall	be	null	and	void),	(ii)	no	Lender	may	assign	or	otherwise	transfer	its	rights	or	obligations	hereunder
	
except	in	accordance	with	this	
Section	9.04
,	(iii)	no	assignment	shall	be	made	to	any	Defaulting	Lender	or	any	of	its	Affiliates,	or
	
any	person	who,	upon	becoming	a	Lender	hereunder,	would	constitute	any	of	the	foregoing	Persons	described	in	this	
clause	(iii)
	
and	(iv)	no	Lender	may	assign	or	otherwise	transfer	its	rights	or	obligations	hereunder	to	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries.
	
Nothing	in	this	Agreement,	expressed	or	implied,	shall	be	construed	to	confer	upon	any	Person	(other	than	the	parties	hereto,	their
	
respective	successors	and	assigns	permitted	hereby	(including	any	Affiliate	of	an	Issuing	Bank	that	issues	any	Letter	of	Credit),
	
Participants	(to	the	extent	provided	in	
Section	9.04(c)
)	and,	to	the	extent	expressly	contemplated	hereby,	the	Related	Parties	of
	
each	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	Lead	Arrangers,	the	Syndication	Agent,	the	Documentation	Agents,	the	Issuing	Banks	and	the
	
Lenders)	any	legal	or	equitable	right,	remedy	or	claim	under	or	by	reason	of	this	Agreement.
(b)	
Subject	to	the	conditions	set	forth	in	
paragraph	(b)(ii)
	below,	any	Lender	may	assign	to	one	or	more
	
assignees	(other	than	(x)	a	natural	person	or	a	holding	company,	investment	vehicle	or	trust	for,	or	owned	and	operated	for	the
	
primary	benefit	of,	a	natural	person,	(y)	the	Borrower	or	its	Subsidiaries	or	(z)	any	Defaulting	Lender	or	any	of	its	Affiliates)	all	or	a
	
portion	of	its	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement	(including	all	or	a	portion	of	its	Commitment,	participation	in	Letters	of
	
Credit	and	the	Loans	at	the	time	owing	to	it)	with	the	prior	written	consent	(such	consent	not	to	be	unreasonably	withheld	or
	
delayed)	of:
(A)	
the	Borrower;	
provided
	that	(i)	no	consent	of	the	Borrower	shall	be	required	for	an	assignment	to	a
	
Lender,	an	Affiliate	of	a	Lender,	an	Approved	Fund	or,	if	an	Event	of	Default	has	occurred	and	is	continuing	under	
clauses
	
(a)
,	
(b)
,	
(h)
	or	
(i)
	of	
Section	7.01
,	any	other	assignee	and	(ii)	where	the	consent	of	the	Borrower	is	required,	the	Borrower
	
shall	be	deemed	to	have	consented	to	any	such	assignment	to	which	it	has	not	objected	in	writing	within	ten	(10)	Business
	
Days	after	receipt	of	notice	thereof;
	
(B)	
the	Administrative	Agent;	
provided
	that	no	consent	of	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	be	required
	
for	an	assignment	to	a	Lender	or	an	Affiliate	of	a	Lender;	and
(C)	
Each	Issuing	Bank.
(ii)	Assignments	shall	be	subject	to	the	following	additional	conditions:
	
95
	(A)	
except	in	the	case	of	an	assignment	to	a	Lender,	an	Affiliate	of	a	Lender	or	an	Approved	Fund	or	an
	
assignment	of	the	entire	remaining	amount	of	the	assigning	Lender’s	Commitment	or	Loans,	the	amount	of	the
	
Commitment	or	Loans	of	the	assigning	Lender	subject	to	each	such	assignment	(determined	as	of	the	date	the	Assignment
	
and	Assumption	with	respect	to	such	assignment	is	delivered	to	the	Administrative	Agent)	shall	not	be	less	than
	
$10,000,000	unless	each	of	the	Borrower	and	the	Administrative	Agent	otherwise	consent;	
provided
	that	no	such	consent
	
of	the	Borrower	shall	be	required	if	an	Event	of	Default	specified	in	
clauses	(a)
,	
(b)
,	
(h)
	or	
(i)
	of	
Section	7.01
	has	occurred
	
and	is	continuing;
(B)	
each	partial	assignment	shall	be	made	as	an	assignment	of	a	proportionate	part	of	all	the	assigning
	
Lender’s	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement;
	
(C)	
the	parties	to	each	assignment	shall	execute	and	deliver	to	the	Administrative	Agent	an
	
Assignment	and	Assumption,	together	with	a	processing	and	recordation	fee	of	$3,500,	which	fees	shall	not	be	payable	by
	
the	Borrower,	except	in	connection	with	the	replacement	of	a	Lender	pursuant	to	
Section	2.19
;	and
(D)	
the	assignee,	if	it	shall	not	be	a	Lender,	shall	deliver	to	the	Administrative	Agent	an	Administrative
	
Questionnaire.
For	the	purposes	of	this	
Section	9.04(b)
,	the	term	“
Approved	Fund
”	has	the	following	meaning:
“
Approved	Fund
”	means	any	Person	(other	than	a	natural	person)	that	is	engaged	in	making,	purchasing,	holding
	
or	investing	in	bank	loans	and	similar	extensions	of	credit	in	the	ordinary	course	of	its	business	and	that	is	administered	or
	
managed	by	(a)	a	Lender,	(b)	an	Affiliate	of	a	Lender	or	(c)	an	entity	or	an	Affiliate	of	an	entity	that	administers	or	manages	a
	
Lender.
(iii)	Subject	to	acceptance	and	recording	thereof	pursuant	to	
Section	9.04(b)(iv)
,	from	and	after	the	effective
	
date	specified	in	each	Assignment	and	Assumption	the	assignee	thereunder	shall	be	a	party	hereto	and,	to	the	extent	of	the
	
interest	assigned	by	such	Assignment	and	Assumption,	have	the	rights	and	obligations	of	a	Lender	under	this	Agreement,
	
and	the	assigning	Lender	thereunder	shall,	to	the	extent	of	the	interest	assigned	by	such	Assignment	and	Assumption,	be
	
released	from	its	obligations	under	this	Agreement	(and,	in	the	case	of	an	Assignment	and	Assumption	covering	all	of	the
	
assigning	Lender’s	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement,	such	Lender	shall	cease	to	be	a	party	hereto	but	shall
	
continue	to	be	subject	to	its	obligations	under	Section	9.12	for	a	period	of	one	year	following	the	effective	date	specified	in
	
such	Assignment	and	Assumption	and	shall	continue	to	be	entitled	to	the	benefits	of	
Sections	2.14
,
	2.15
,	
2.16
,	
2.20
	and
	
9.03
).		Any	assignment	or	transfer	by	a	Lender	of	rights	or	obligations	under	this	Agreement	that	does	not	comply	with	this
	
Section	9.04
	shall	be	treated	for	purposes	of	this	Agreement	as	a	sale	by	such	Lender	of	a	participation	in	such	rights	and
	
obligations	in	accordance	with	
Section	9.04(c)
.
(iv)	The	Administrative	Agent,	acting	for	this	purpose	as	an	agent	of	the	Borrower,	shall	maintain	at	one	of	its
	
offices	a	copy	of	each	Assignment	and	Assumption	delivered	to	it	and	a	register	for	the	recordation	of	the	names	and
	
addresses	of	the	Lenders,	and	the	Commitment	of,	and	principal	amount	(and	stated	interest)	of	the	Loans	and	LC
	
Disbursements	owing	to,	each	Lender	pursuant	to	the	terms	hereof	from	time	to	time	(the	“
Register
”).		The	entries	in	the
	
Register	shall	be	conclusive,	absent	manifest	error,	and	the	Borrower,	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	Issuing	Banks	and	the
	
Lenders	shall	treat	each	Person	whose	name	is	recorded	in	the	Register	pursuant	to	the	terms	hereof	as	a	Lender
	
hereunder	for	all	purposes	of	this	Agreement,
	
96
	notwithstanding	notice	to	the	contrary.		The	Register	shall	be	available	for	inspection	by	the	Borrower	,	any	Issuing	Bank
	
and	any	Lender,	at	any	reasonable	time	and	from	time	to	time	upon	reasonable	prior	notice.
(v)	Upon	its	receipt	of	a	duly	completed	Assignment	and	Assumption	executed	by	an	assigning	Lender	and	an
	
assignee,	the	assignee’s	completed	Administrative	Questionnaire	(unless	the	assignee	shall	already	be	a	Lender
	
hereunder),	the	processing	and	recordation	fee	referred	to	in	
Section	9.04(b)
	and	any	written	consent	to	such	assignment
	
required	by	
Section	9.04(b)
,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	accept	such	Assignment	and	Assumption	and	record	the
	
information	contained	therein	in	the	Register.		No	assignment	shall	be	effective	for	purposes	of	this	Agreement	unless	it
	
has	been	recorded	in	the	Register	as	provided	in	this	
paragraph	(b)
.
(c)	
Any	Lender	may,	without	the	consent	of	the	Borrower,	the	Administrative	Agent	or	the	Issuing	Banks,	sell
	
participations	to	one	or	more	banks	or	other	entities	(other	than	(x)	a	natural	person	or	a	holding	company,	investment	vehicle	or
	
trust	for,	or	owned	and	operated	for	the	primary	benefit	of,	a	natural	person,	(y)	the	Borrower	or	its	Subsidiaries	or	(z)	any
	
Defaulting	Lender	or	Disqualified	Institution	or	any	of	their	respective	Affiliates)	(a	“
Participant
”)	in	all	or	a	portion	of	such
	
Lender’s	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement	(including	all	or	a	portion	of	its	Commitment	and	the	Loans	owing	to	it);
	
provided
	that	(A)	such	Lender’s	obligations	under	this	Agreement	shall	remain	unchanged,	(B)	such	Lender	shall	remain	solely
	
responsible	to	the	other	parties	hereto	for	the	performance	of	such	obligations	and	(C)	the	Borrower,	the	Administrative	Agent,	the
	
Issuing	Banks	and	the	other	Lenders	shall	continue	to	deal	solely	and	directly	with	such	Lender	in	connection	with	such	Lender’s
	
rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement.		Any	agreement	or	instrument	pursuant	to	which	a	Lender	sells	such	a	participation
	
shall	provide	that	such	Lender	shall	retain	the	sole	right	to	enforce	this	Agreement	and	to	approve	any	amendment,	modification	or
	
waiver	of	any	provision	of	this	Agreement;	
provided
	that	such	agreement	or	instrument	may	provide	that	such	Lender	will	not,
	
without	the	consent	of	the	Participant,	agree	to	any	amendment,	modification	or	waiver	described	in	the	first	proviso	to	
Section
	
9.02(b)
	that	affects	such	Participant.		Subject	to	
Section	9.04(c)(ii)
,	the	Borrower	agrees	that	each	Participant	shall	be	entitled	to
	
the	benefits	of	
Sections	2.14
,	
2.15
,	
2.16
	and	
9.03
	subject	to	the	requirements	and	limitations	therein,	including	the	requirements
	
under	
Section	2.16(f)
	(it	being	understood	that	the	documentation	required	under	
Section	2.16(f)
	shall	be	delivered	to	the
	
participating	Lender)	to	the	same	extent	as	if	it	were	a	Lender	and	had	acquired	its	interest	by	assignment	pursuant	to	
Section
	
9.04(b)
.		Each	Lender	that	sells	a	participation	agrees,	at	the	Borrower's	request	and	expense,	to	use	reasonable	efforts	to
	
cooperate	with	the	Borrower	to	effectuate	the	provisions	of	
Section	2.19
	with	respect	to	any	Participant.		To	the	extent	permitted	by
	
law,	each	Participant	also	shall	be	entitled	to	the	benefits	of	
Section	9.08
	as	though	it	were	a	Lender;	
provided
	such	Participant
	
agrees	to	be	subject	to	
Section	2.17(c)
	as	though	it	were	a	Lender.	Each	Lender	that	sells	a	participation	shall,	acting	solely	for	this
	
purpose	as	a	non-fiduciary	agent	of	the	Borrower,	maintain	a	register	on	which	it	enters	the	name	and	address	of	each	Participant
	
and	the	principal	amounts	(and	stated	interest)	of	each	Participant’s	interest	in	the	Loans	or	other	obligations	under	this	Agreement
	
(the	“
Participant	Register
”);	
provided
	that	no	Lender	shall	have	any	obligation	to	disclose	all	or	any	portion	of	the	Participant
	
Register	to	any	Person	(including	the	identity	of	any	Participant	or	any	information	relating	to	a	Participant’s	interest	in	any
	
Commitments,	Loans,	Letters	of	Credit	or	its	other	obligations	under	this	Agreement)	except	to	the	extent	that	such	disclosure	is
	
necessary	to	establish	that	such	Commitment,	Loan,	Letter	of	Credit	or	other	obligation	is	in	registered	form	under	Section	5f.103-
1(c)	of	the	United	States	Treasury	Regulations.	The	entries	in	the	Participant	Register	shall	be	conclusive	absent	manifest	error,
	
and	such	Lender	shall	treat	each	person	whose	name	is	recorded	in	the	Participant	Register	as	the	owner	of	such	participation	for
	
all	purposes	of	this	Agreement,	notwithstanding	any	notice	to	the	contrary.		For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	the	Administrative	Agent
	
(in	its	capacity	as	Administrative	Agent)	shall	have	no	responsibility	for	maintaining	a	Participant	Register.
97
	(i)	A	Participant	shall	not	be	entitled	to	receive	any	greater	payment	under	
Sections	2.14
,	
2.15
,	
2.16
	or	
9.03
	than
	
the	applicable	Lender	would	have	been	entitled	to	receive	with	respect	to	the	participation	sold	to	such	Participant,	unless
	
the	sale	of	the	participation	to	such	Participant	is	made	with	the	Borrower’s	prior	written	consent,	except	to	the	extent
	
such	entitlement	to	receive	a	greater	payment	results	from	an	adoption	of	or	any	change	in	any	requirement	of	law	or	in
	
the	interpretation	or	application	thereof	or	compliance	by	any	Lender	with	any	request	or	directive	(whether	or	not	having
	
the	force	of	law)	from	any	central	bank	or	other	Governmental	Authority	made	subsequent	to	the	date	hereof	that	occurs
	
after	the	Participant	acquired	the	applicable	participation.		A	Participant	shall	not	be	entitled	to	the	benefits	of	
Section
	
2.16
	unless	the	Borrower	is	notified	of	the	participation	sold	to	such	Participant	and	such	Participant	agrees,	for	the
	
benefit	of	the	Borrower,	to	comply	with	
Section	2.16(f)
	as	though	it	were	a	Lender	(it	being	understood	that	the
	
documentation	required	under	
Section	2.16(f)
	shall	be	delivered	to	the	participating	Lender).
		
(d)	
Any	Lender	may	at	any	time	pledge	or	assign	a	security	interest	in	all	or	any	portion	of	its	rights	under	this
	
Agreement	and	its	respective	promissory	note	to	secure	obligations	of	such	Lender	to	a	Federal	Reserve	Bank	or	other	central
	
bank,	and	this	
Section	9.04
	shall	not	apply	to	any	such	pledge	or	assignment	of	a	security	interest;	
provided
	that	no	such	pledge	or
	
assignment	of	a	security	interest	shall	release	a	Lender	from	any	of	its	obligations	hereunder	or	substitute	any	such	pledgee	or
	
assignee	for	such	Lender	as	a	party	hereto.
(e)	
(i)	No	assignment	or	participation	shall	be	made	to	any	Person	that	was	a	Disqualified	Institution	as	of	the
	
date	(the	“
Trade	Date
”)	on	which	the	assigning	Lender	entered	into	a	binding	agreement	to	sell	and	assign	all	or	a	portion	of	its
	
rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement	to	such	Person	(unless	the	Borrower	has	consented	to	such	assignment	or	participation
	
in	writing	in	its	sole	and	absolute	discretion,	in	which	case	such	Person	will	not	be	considered	a	Disqualified	Institution	for	the
	
purpose	of	such	assignment,	or	participation).		For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	with	respect	to	any	assignee		that	becomes	a
	
Disqualified	Institution	after	the	applicable	Trade	Date,	(x)	such	assignee	shall	not	retroactively	be	disqualified	from	becoming	a
	
Lender	and	(y)	the	execution	by	the	Borrower	of	an	Assignment	and	Assumption	with	respect	to	such	assignee	will	not	by	itself
	
result	in	such	assignee	no	longer	being	considered	a	Disqualified	Institution.	Any	assignment	or	participation	in	violation	of	this
	
clause	(e)(i)
	shall	not	be	void,	but	the	other	provisions	of	this	
clause	(e)
	shall	apply.
	
(ii)	If	any	assignment	or	participation	is	made	to	any	Disqualified	Institution	without	the	Borrower’s	prior	written
	
consent	in	violation	of	
clause	(i)
	above,	or	if	any	Person	becomes	a	Disqualified	Institution	after	the	applicable	Trade	Date,
	
the	Borrower	may,	at	its	sole	expense	and	effort,	upon	notice	to	the	applicable	Disqualified	Institution	and	the
	
Administrative	Agent,	(A)	terminate	any	Commitment	of	such	Disqualified	Institution	and	repay	all	obligations	of	the
	
Borrower	owing	to	such	Disqualified	Institution	in	connection	with	such	Commitment	or	(B)	require	such	Disqualified
	
Institution	to	assign,	without	recourse	(in	accordance	with	and	subject	to	the	restrictions	contained	in	this	Section),	all	of
	
its	interest,	rights	and	obligations	under	this	Agreement	to	one	or	more	Eligible	Assignees	at	the	lesser	of	(x)	the	principal
	
amount	thereof	and	(y)	the	amount	that	such	Disqualified	Institution	paid	to	acquire	such	interests,	rights	and	obligations,
	
in	each	case	plus	accrued	interest,	accrued	fees	and	all	other	amounts	(other	than	principal	amounts)	payable	to	it
	
hereunder.
		
	
(iii)	Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	contained	in	this	Agreement,	Disqualified	Institutions	(A)	will	not
	
(x)	have	the	right	to	receive	information,	reports	or	other	materials	provided	to	Lenders	or	Issuing	Banks	by	the	Borrower,
	
the	Administrative	Agent	or	any	other	Lender	or	Issuing	Bank,	(y)	attend	or	participate	in	meetings	attended	by	the
	
Lenders,	Issuing	Banks	and	the	Administrative	Agent,	or	(z)	access	any	electronic	site	established	for	the	Lenders
	
98
	or	the	Issuing	Banks	or	confidential	communications	from	counsel	to	or	financial	advisors	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	the
	
Lenders	or	the	Issuing	Banks	and	(B)	for	purposes	of	any	consent	to	any	amendment,	waiver	or	modification	of,	or	any
	
action	under,	and	for	the	purpose	of	any	direction	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Lender	or	any	Issuing	Bank	to
	
undertake	any	action	(or	refrain	from	taking	any	action)	under	this	Agreement	or	any	other	Loan	Document,	each
	
Disqualified	Institution	will	be	deemed	to	have	consented	in	the	same	proportion	as	the	Lenders	or	Issuing	Banks	that	are
	
not	Disqualified	Institutions	consented	to	such	matter.
	
(iv)	The	Administrative	Agent	shall	not	be	responsible	or	have	any	liability	for,	or	have	any	duty	to	ascertain,
	
inquire	into,	monitor	or	enforce,	compliance	with	the	provisions	hereof	relating	to	Disqualified	Institutions.		Without
	
limiting	the	generality	of	the	foregoing,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	not	​(i)	be	obligated	to	ascertain,	monitor	or	inquire
	
as	to	whether	any	Lender	or	Participant	or	prospective	Lender	or	Participant	is	a	Disqualified	​Institution	or	(ii)	have	any
	
liability	with	respect	to	or	arising	out	of	any	assignment	or	participation	of	Loans,	or	disclosure	of	confidential	information,
	
to	any	​Disqualified	Institution.	The	Administrative	Agent	shall	have	the	right,	and	the	Borrower	hereby	expressly
	
authorizes	the	Administrative	Agent,	to	(A)	post	the	list	of	Disqualified	Institutions	provided	by	the	Borrower	and	any
	
updates	thereto	from	time	to	time	(collectively,	the	“
DQ	List
”)	on	an	Approved	Electronic	Platform	or	(B)	provide	the	DQ
	
List	to	each	Lender	requesting	the	same.
	
SECTION	9.05.		
Survival
.		All	covenants,	agreements,	representations	and	warranties	made	by	the	Borrower
	
herein	and	in	the	certificates	or	other	instruments	delivered	in	connection	with	or	pursuant	to	this	Agreement	shall	be	considered
	
to	have	been	relied	upon	by	the	other	parties	hereto	and	shall	survive	the	execution	and	delivery	of	this	Agreement	and	the	making
	
of	any	Loans	and	issuance	of	any	Letters	of	Credit,	regardless	of	any	investigation	made	by	any	such	other	party	or	on	its	behalf	and
	
notwithstanding	that	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Issuing	Bank	or	any	Lender	may	have	had	notice	or	knowledge	of	any	Default	or
	
incorrect	representation	or	warranty	at	the	time	any	credit	is	extended	hereunder,	and	shall	continue	in	full	force	and	effect	as	long
	
as	the	principal	of	or	any	accrued	interest	on	any	Loan	or	any	fee	or	any	other	amount	payable	under	this	Agreement	is	outstanding
	
and	unpaid	or	any	Letter	of	Credit	is	outstanding	and	so	long	as	the	Commitments	have	not	expired	or	terminated.		The	provisions
	
of	
Sections	2.14
,	
2.15
,	
2.16
	and	
9.03
	and	
Article	VIII
	shall	survive	and	remain	in	full	force	and	effect	regardless	of	the	resignation
	
or	replacement	of	the	Administrative	Agent	or	a	Lender,	the	repayment	of	the	Loans,	the	expiration	or	termination	of	the	Letters	of
	
Credit	and	the	Commitments	or	the	termination	of	this	Agreement	or	any	provision	hereof.
SECTION	9.06.		
Counterparts;	Integration;	Effectiveness
.		This	Agreement	may	be	executed	in	counterparts	(and
	
by	different	parties	hereto	on	different	counterparts),	each	of	which	shall	constitute	an	original,	but	all	of	which	when	taken
	
together	shall	constitute	a	single	contract.		This	Agreement	and	any	separate	letter	agreements	with	respect	to	(i)	fees	payable	to
	
the	Administrative	Agent	and	(ii)	the	reductions	of	the	Letter	of	Credit	Commitment	of	any	Issuing	Banks	constitute	the	entire
	
contract	among	the	parties	relating	to	the	subject	matter	hereof	and	supersede	any	and	all	previous	agreements	and
	
understandings,	oral	or	written,	relating	to	the	subject	matter	hereof.		Except	as	provided	in	
Section	4.01
,	this	Agreement	shall
	
become	effective	when	it	shall	have	been	executed	by	the	Administrative	Agent	and	when	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	have
	
received	counterparts	hereof	which,	when	taken	together,	bear	the	signatures	of	each	of	the	other	parties	hereto,	and	thereafter
	
shall	be	binding	upon	and	inure	to	the	benefit	of	the	parties	hereto	and	their	respective	successors	and	assigns.		Delivery	of	an
	
executed	counterpart	of	a	signature	page	of	this	Agreement	by	facsimile	(or	in	any	other	manner	approved	pursuant	to	
Section
	
9.01(b)
)	shall	be	effective	as	delivery	of	a	manually	executed	counterpart	of	this	Agreement.	The	words	“execution”,	“signed”,
	
“signature”,	and	words	of	like	import	in	this	Agreement	including	any	Assignment	and	Assumption	shall	be	deemed	to	include
	
electronic	signatures	or	electronic	records,	each	of	which	shall	be	of	the	same	legal	effect,	validity	or	enforceability	as	a	manually
	
99
	executed	signature	or	the	use	of	a	paper-based	recordkeeping	system,	as	the	case	may	be,	to	the	extent	and	as	provided	for	in	any
	
applicable	law,	including	the	Federal	Electronic	Signatures	in	Global	and	National	Commerce	Act,	the	New	York	State	Electronic
	
Signatures	and	Records	Act,	or	any	other	similar	state	laws	based	on	the	Uniform	Electronic	Transactions	Act.
SECTION	9.07.		
Severability
.		Any	provision	of	this	Agreement	held	to	be	invalid,	illegal	or	unenforceable	in	any
	
jurisdiction	shall,	as	to	such	jurisdiction,	be	ineffective	to	the	extent	of	such	invalidity,	illegality	or	unenforceability	without
	
affecting	the	validity,	legality	and	enforceability	of	the	remaining	provisions	hereof;	and	the	invalidity	of	a	particular	provision	in	a
	
particular	jurisdiction	shall	not	invalidate	such	provision	in	any	other	jurisdiction.
SECTION	9.08.		
Right	of	Setoff
.		If	an	Event	of	Default	shall	have	occurred	and	be	continuing	and	the
	
Commitments	have	been	terminated	and	the	Loans	then	outstanding	have	been	declared	due	and	payable	as	a	result	thereof,	each
	
Lender,	each	Issuing	Bank	and	each	of	their	respective	Affiliates	is	hereby	authorized	at	any	time	and	from	time	to	time,	to	the
	
fullest	extent	permitted	by	law,	to	set	off	and	apply	any	and	all	deposits	(general	or	special,	time	or	demand,	provisional	or	final)	at
	
any	time	held	and	other	obligations	at	any	time	owing	by	such	Lender,	such	Issuing	Bank	or	any	such	Affiliate	to	or	for	the	credit	or
	
the	account	of	the	Borrower	against	any	of	and	all	the	obligations	of	the	Borrower	now	or	hereafter	existing	under	this	Agreement
	
held	by	such	Lender	or	such	Issuing	Bank	or	their	respective	Affiliates,	irrespective	of	whether	or	not	such	Lender,	such	Issuing
	
Bank	or	such	Affiliate	shall	have	made	any	demand	under	this	Agreement	and	although	such	obligations	may	be	unmatured;
	
provided
	that	if	any	Defaulting	Lender	shall	exercise	any	such	right	of	setoff,	(x)	all	amounts	so	set	off	shall	be	paid	over
	
immediately	to	the	Administrative	Agent	for	further	application	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	
Section	2.20
	and,	pending	such
	
payment,	shall	be	segregated	by	such	Defaulting	Lender	from	its	other	funds	and	deemed	held	in	trust	for	the	benefit	of	the
	
Administrative	Agent,	the	Issuing	Banks	and	the	Lenders	and	(y)	the	Defaulting	Lender	shall	provide	promptly	to	the	Administrative
	
Agent	and	the	Borrower	a	statement	describing	in	reasonable	detail	the	obligations	owing	to	such	Defaulting	Lender	as	to	which	it
	
exercised	such	right	of	setoff.		The	rights	of	each	Lender,	each	Issuing	Bank	and	their	respect	Affiliates	under	this	
Section	9.08
	are
	
in	addition	to	other	rights	and	remedies	(including	other	rights	of	setoff)	which	such	Lender,	such	Issuing	Bank	or	their	respective
	
Affiliates	may	have.		For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	it	is	understood	and	agreed	that	the	rights	of	each	Lender,	each	Issuing	Bank,	and
	
each	of	their	respective	Affiliates	under	this	
Section	9.08
	shall	not	apply	to	amounts	held	by	the	Borrower	in	trust	for	the	benefit	of
	
others	or	in	its	capacity	as	a	servicer	in	connection	with	a	Securitization	Transaction.
SECTION	9.09.		
Governing	Law;	Jurisdiction;	Consent	to	Service	of	Process
.		(a)		This	Agreement	shall	be
	
construed	in	accordance	with	and	governed	by	the	law	of	the	State	of	New	York	(whether	in	tort,	contract	or	otherwise	and	whether
	
at	law	or	in	equity).
(b)	
Each	of	the	parties	hereto	hereby	irrevocably	and	unconditionally	submits,	for	itself	and	its	property,	to	the
	
exclusive	jurisdiction	of	the	United	States	District	Court	of	the	Southern	District	of	New	York	sitting	in	the	Borough	of	Manhattan
	
(or	if	such	court	lacks	subject	matter	jurisdiction,	the	Supreme	Court	of	the	State	of	New	York	sitting	in	the	Borough	of	Manhattan),
	
and	any	appellate	court	from	any	thereof,	in	any	action	or	proceeding	arising	out	of	or	relating	to	this	Agreement,	or	for	recognition
	
or	enforcement	of	any	judgment,	and	each	of	the	parties	hereto	hereby	irrevocably	and	unconditionally	agrees	that	all	claims	in
	
respect	of	any	such	action	or	proceeding	may	be	heard	and	determined	in	such	Federal	(to	the	extent	permitted	by	law)	or	New
	
York	State	court.		Each	of	the	parties	hereto	agrees	that	a	final	judgment	in	any	such	action	or	proceeding	shall	be	conclusive	and
	
may	be	enforced	in	other	jurisdictions	by	suit	on	the	judgment	or	in	any	other	manner	provided	by	law.		Nothing	in	this	Agreement
	
shall	affect	any	right	that	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Issuing	Bank	or	any	Lender	may	otherwise	have	to	enforce	a	judgment
	
against	the	Borrower	or	its	properties	in	the	courts	of	any	jurisdiction.
100
	(c)	
Each	of	the	parties	hereto	hereby	irrevocably	and	unconditionally	waives,	to	the	fullest	extent	it	may	legally
	
and	effectively	do	so,	any	objection	which	it	may	now	or	hereafter	have	to	the	laying	of	venue	of	any	suit,	action	or	proceeding
	
arising	out	of	or	relating	to	this	Agreement	in	any	court	referred	to	in	the	first	sentence	of	
Section	9.09(b)
.		Each	of	the	parties
	
hereto	hereby	irrevocably	waives,	to	the	fullest	extent	permitted	by	law,	the	defense	of	an	inconvenient	forum	to	the	maintenance
	
of	such	action	or	proceeding	in	any	such	court.
(d)	
Each	party	to	this	Agreement	irrevocably	consents	to	service	of	process	in	the	manner	provided	for	notices	in
	
writing	under	
Section	9.01
,	but	not	electronically.		Nothing	in	this	Agreement	will	affect	the	right	of	any	party	to	this	Agreement	to
	
serve	process	in	any	other	manner	permitted	by	law.
SECTION	9.10.		
WAIVER	OF	JURY	TRIAL
.		EACH	PARTY	HERETO	HEREBY	WAIVES,	TO	THE	FULLEST
	
EXTENT	PERMITTED	BY	APPLICABLE	LAW,	ANY	RIGHT	IT	MAY	HAVE	TO	A	TRIAL	BY	JURY	IN	ANY	LEGAL
	
PROCEEDING	DIRECTLY	OR	INDIRECTLY	ARISING	OUT	OF	OR	RELATING	TO	THIS	AGREEMENT	OR	THE
	
TRANSACTIONS	CONTEMPLATED	HEREBY	(WHETHER	BASED	ON	CONTRACT,	TORT	OR	ANY	OTHER	THEORY).
		
EACH	PARTY	HERETO	(A)	CERTIFIES	THAT	NO	REPRESENTATIVE,	AGENT	OR	ATTORNEY	OF	ANY	OTHER	PARTY
	
HAS	REPRESENTED,	EXPRESSLY	OR	OTHERWISE,	THAT	SUCH	OTHER	PARTY	WOULD	NOT,	IN	THE	EVENT	OF
	
LITIGATION,	SEEK	TO	ENFORCE	THE	FOREGOING	WAIVER	AND	(B)	ACKNOWLEDGES	THAT	IT	AND	THE	OTHER
	
PARTIES	HERETO	HAVE	BEEN	INDUCED	TO	ENTER	INTO	THIS	AGREEMENT	BY,	AMONG	OTHER	THINGS,	THE
	
MUTUAL	WAIVERS	AND	CERTIFICATIONS	IN	THIS	
SECTION	9.10
.
SECTION	9.11.		
Headings
.		Article	and	Section	headings	and	the	Table	of	Contents	used	herein	are	for
	
convenience	of	reference	only,	are	not	part	of	this	Agreement	and	shall	not	affect	the	construction	of,	or	be	taken	into	consideration
	
in	interpreting,	this	Agreement.
SECTION	9.12.		
Confidentiality
.		Each	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	Issuing	Banks	and	the	Lenders	agrees	to
	
maintain	the	confidentiality	of	the	Information	(as	defined	below),	except	that	Information	may	be	disclosed	(a)	to	its	and	its
	
Affiliates’	directors,	officers,	employees	and	agents,	including	accountants,	legal	counsel	and	other	advisors	(it	being	understood
	
that	the	Persons	to	whom	such	disclosure	is	made	will	be	informed	of	the	confidential	nature	of	such	Information	and	instructed	to
	
keep	such	Information	confidential),	(b)	to	the	extent	requested	by	any	regulatory	authority	or	Governmental	Authority	having
	
jurisdiction	over	such	Administrative	Agent,	Issuing	Bank,	Lender	or	its	respective	Affiliates;	
provided
,	
however
,	that	with	respect
	
to	disclosures	pursuant	to	this	
clause	(b)
	(other	than	with	respect	to	any	audit	or	examination	conducted	by	any	governmental	bank
	
regulatory	authority	exercising	examination	or	regulatory	authority	unless	such	audit	or	examination	specifically	targets	the
	
Borrower	or	its	Subsidiaries,	the	Transactions	or	the	Information)	or	the	following	
clause	(c)
	of	this	
Section	9.12
,	unless	prohibited
	
by	law	or	applicable	court	order,	each	disclosing	Person	shall	attempt	to	notify	the	Borrower	of	any	request	by	any	governmental
	
agency	or	representative	thereof	or	other	Person	for	disclosure	of	Information	after	receipt	of	such	request,	and	if	reasonably
	
practicable	and	permissible,	before	disclosure	of	such	Information,	(c)	to	the	extent	required	by	applicable	laws	or	regulations	or	by
	
any	subpoena	or	similar	legal	process,	(d)	to	any	other	party	to	this	Agreement,	(e)	subject	to	an	agreement	containing	provisions
	
substantially	the	same	as	those	of	this	
Section	9.12
,	to	any	credit	insurance	provider	or	service	provider	relating	to	the	Borrower
	
and	its	obligations,	(f)	in	connection	with	the	exercise	of	any	remedies	hereunder	or	any	suit,	action	or	proceeding	relating	to	this
	
Agreement	or	the	enforcement	of	rights	hereunder,	(g)	subject	to	an	agreement	containing	provisions	substantially	the	same	as
	
those	of	this	
Section	9.12
	to	(i)	any	assignee	of	or	Participant	in,	or	any	prospective	assignee	of	or	Participant	in,	or	any	sub-
Participant	in,	any	of	its	rights	or	obligations	under	this	Agreement	or	(ii)	any
	
101
	actual	or	prospective	counterparty	(or	its	advisors)	to	any	swap,	derivative	transaction	or	other	transaction	under	which	payments
	
are	to	be	made	relating	to	the	Borrower	and	its	obligations,	this	Agreement	or	payments	hereunder,	other	than,	in	each	case,	to	any
	
Disqualified	Institution,	(h)	on	a	confidential	basis	to,	with	the	consent	of	the	Borrower,	(1)	any	rating	agency	in	connection	with
	
rating	the	Borrower	or	its	Subsidiaries	or	the	credit	facilities	provided	herein	or	(2)	the	CUSIP	Service	Bureau	or	any	similar
	
agency	in	connection	with	the	issuance	and	monitoring	of	identification	numbers	with	respect	to	the	credit	facilities	provided
	
herein,	(i)	with	the	consent	of	the	Borrower,	(j)	to	the	extent	such	Information	(1)	becomes	publicly	available	other	than	as	a	result
	
of	a	breach	of	this	
Section	9.12
	by	the	disclosing	party	or	any	of	its	directors,	officers,	employees	and	agents,	including
	
accountants,	legal	counsel	and	other	advisors,	(2)	becomes	available	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Issuing	Bank	or	any	Lender
	
on	a	non-confidential	basis	from	a	source	other	than	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	subsidiaries	(other	than	by	any	source	known	by
	
such	disclosing	party	to	have	an	obligation	of	confidentiality	with	respect	to	the	disclosed	Information)	or	(3)	to	the	extent
	
pertaining	to	the	existence	or	terms	of	this	Agreement,	market	data	collectors,	similar	service	providers	to	the	lending	industry	and
	
service	providers	to	the	extent	such	information	is	customarily	provided	to	such	Persons	in	connection	with	the	administration	of
	
this	Agreement	and	the	Commitments	hereunder,	(k)	to	the	extent	applicable	and	reasonably	necessary	or	advisable,	for	purposes
	
of	establishing	a	“due	diligence”	defense	in	connection	with	any	legal,	judicial,	administrative	proceeding	or	other	process	or	(l)	to
	
the	extent	that	such	information	is	independently	developed	by	such	Administrative	Agent,	Issuing	Bank	or	Lender	so	long	as	not
	
based	on	information	obtained	in	a	manner	that	would	otherwise	violate	this	
Section	9.12
.		For	the	purposes	of	this	
Section	9.12
,
	
“
Information
”	means	all	information	received	from	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	subsidiaries	relating	to	the	Borrower	or	its
	
Subsidiaries	or	their	business,	other	than	any	such	information	that	is	available	to	the	Administrative	Agent,	any	Issuing	Bank	or
	
any	Lender	on	a	non-confidential	basis	prior	to	disclosure	by	the	Borrower	or	any	of	its	Subsidiaries.		Any	Person	required	to
	
maintain	the	confidentiality	of	Information	as	provided	in	this	
Section	9.12
	shall	be	considered	to	have	complied	with	its	obligation
	
to	do	so	if	such	Person	has	exercised	the	same	degree	of	care	to	maintain	the	confidentiality	of	such	Information	as	such	Person
	
would	accord	to	its	own	confidential	information.	Each	of	the	Administrative	Agent,	the	Syndication	Agent,	the	Lead	Arrangers,	the
	
Documentation	Agents,	the	Issuing	Banks	and	the	Lenders	acknowledge	and	agree	that	(i)	the	Information	may	include	material
	
non-public	information	concerning	the	Borrower	or	a	Subsidiary	thereof,	as	the	case	may	be,	(ii)	it	has	developed	compliance
	
procedures	regarding	the	use	of	material	non-public	information	(iii)	it	will	handle	such	material	non-public	information	in
	
accordance	with	such	compliance	procedures	and	applicable	law,	including	U.S.	federal	and	state	securities	laws	and	(iv)	it	will
	
exercise	the	same	degree	of	care	to	maintain	the	confidentiality	of	such	Information	as	such	Person	would	accord	to	its	own
	
confidential	information.
SECTION	9.13.		
USA	PATRIOT	Act;	Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation
.		Each	Lender	hereby	notifies	the	Borrower
	
that	pursuant	to	the	requirements	of	the	USA	Patriot	Act	(Title	III	of	Pub.	L.	107-56	(signed	into	law	October	26,	2001))	(the	“
Act
”)
	
and	the	Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation,	it	is	required	to	obtain,	verify	and	record	information	that	identifies	the	Borrower,	which
	
information	includes	the	name	and	address	of	the	Borrower	and	other	information	that	will	allow	such	Lender	to	identify	the
	
Borrower	in	accordance	with	the	Act	and	the	Beneficial	Ownership	Regulation.
SECTION	9.14.		
Agreements	Respecting	Unrestricted	Subsidiaries
.		If	any	Unrestricted	Subsidiary,	in	connection
	
with	any	Indebtedness,	Guarantee	or	other	obligations	incurred	by	such	Unrestricted	Subsidiary,	incurs	obligations	that	do	not
	
satisfy	the	requirements	for	designation	as	an	Unrestricted	Subsidiary	or	otherwise	fails	to	satisfy	the	requirements	for	designation
	
as	an	Unrestricted	Subsidiary,	the	relevant	Unrestricted	Subsidiary	automatically	(without	any	further	action	by	the	Borrower)	shall
	
be	re-designated	as	a	Restricted	Subsidiary	and	each	provision	of	this	Agreement	applicable	to	Restricted	Subsidiaries	shall	apply
	
to	such	Subsidiary.
102
	SECTION	9.15.		
No	Fiduciary	Duty
.		The	Administrative	Agent,	each	Lender,	each	Issuing	Bank	and	their	Affiliates
	
(collectively,	solely	for	purposes	of	this	
Section	9.15
,	the	“
Lenders
”),	may	have	economic	interests	that	conflict	with	those	of
	
Borrower.	Borrower	agrees	that	nothing	in	this	Agreement	or	any	related	documentation	or	otherwise	will	be	deemed	to	create	an
	
advisory,	fiduciary	or	agency	relationship	or	fiduciary	or	other	implied	duty	between	the	Lenders	and	Borrower,	its	stockholders	or
	
its	affiliates.	The	Borrower	acknowledges	and	agrees	that	(i)	the	transactions	contemplated	by	this	Agreement	and	any	related
	
documentation	are	arm’s	length	commercial	transactions	between	the	Lenders,	on	the	one	hand,	and	Borrower,	on	the	other,	(ii)	in
	
connection	therewith	and	with	the	process	leading	to	such	transaction	each	of	the	Lenders	is	acting	solely	as	a	principal	and	not	the
	
agent	or	fiduciary	of	Borrower,	its	management,	stockholders,	creditors	or	any	other	person,	(iii)	no	Lender	has	assumed	an
	
advisory	or	fiduciary	responsibility	in	favor	of	Borrower	with	respect	to	the	transactions	contemplated	hereby	or	the	process
	
leading	thereto	(irrespective	of	whether	any	Lender	or	any	of	its	affiliates	has	advised	or	is	currently	advising	Borrower	on	other
	
matters)	or	any	other	obligation	to	Borrower	except	the	obligations	expressly	set	forth	in	this	Agreement	and	any	related
	
documentation	and	(iv)	Borrower	has	consulted	its	own	legal	and	financial	advisors	to	the	extent	it	deemed	appropriate.	Borrower
	
further	acknowledges	and	agrees	that	it	is	responsible	for	making	its	own	independent	judgment	with	respect	to	such	transactions
	
and	the	process	leading	thereto.	Borrower	agrees	that	it	will	not	claim	that	any	Lender	has	rendered	advisory	services	of	any
	
nature	or	respect,	or	owes	a	fiduciary	or	similar	duty	to	Borrower,	in	connection	with	such	transaction	or	the	process	leading
	
thereto.
SECTION	9.16.		
Conversion	of	Currencies
.
(a)	
If,	for	the	purpose	of	obtaining	judgment	in	any	court,	it	is	necessary	to	convert	a	sum	owing	hereunder	in
	
one	currency	into	another	currency,	each	party	hereto	agrees,	to	the	fullest	extent	that	it	may	effectively	do	so,	that	the	rate	of
	
exchange	used	shall	be	that	at	which,	in	accordance	with	normal	banking	procedures	in	the	relevant	jurisdiction,	the	first	currency
	
could	be	purchased	with	such	other	currency	on	the	Business	Day	immediately	preceding	the	day	on	which	final	judgment	is	given.
(b)	
The	obligations	of	the	Borrower	in	respect	of	any	sum	due	to	any	party	hereto	or	any	holder	of	the
	
obligations	owing	hereunder	(the	“
Applicable	Creditor
”)	shall,	notwithstanding	any	judgment	in	a	currency	(the	“
Judgment
	
Currency
”)	other	than	the	currency	in	which	such	sum	is	stated	to	be	due	hereunder	(the	“
Agreement	Currency
”),	be	discharged
	
only	to	the	extent	that,	on	the	Business	Day	following	receipt	by	the	Applicable	Creditor	of	any	sum	adjudged	to	be	so	due	in	the
	
Judgment	Currency,	the	Applicable	Creditor	may	in	accordance	with	normal	banking	procedures	in	the	relevant	jurisdiction
	
purchase	the	Agreement	Currency	with	the	Judgment	Currency;	if	the	amount	of	the	Agreement	Currency	so	purchased	is	less	than
	
the	sum	originally	due	to	the	Applicable	Creditor	in	the	Agreement	Currency,	the	Borrower	agrees,	as	a	separate	obligation	and
	
notwithstanding	any	such	judgment,	to	indemnify	the	Applicable	Creditor	against	such	loss.		The	obligations	of	the	Borrower
	
contained	in	this	
Section	9.16
	shall	survive	the	termination	of	this	Agreement	and	the	payment	of	all	other	amounts	owing
	
hereunder.
SECTION	9.17.		
Acknowledgement	and	Consent	to	Bail-In	of	Affected	Financial	Institutions,	Etc.
.
		
Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	in	this	Agreement	or	in	any	other	agreement,	arrangement	or	understanding	among	any
	
such	parties,	each	party	hereto	acknowledges	that	any	liability	of	any	Affected	Financial	Institution	arising	under	any	Loan
	
Document	may	be	subject	to	the	Write-Down	and	Conversion	Powers	of	the	applicable	Resolution	Authority	and	agrees	and
	
consents	to,	and	acknowledges	and	agrees	to	be	bound	by:
(a)	
the	application	of	any	Write-Down	and	Conversion	Powers	by	an	applicable	Resolution	Authority	to	any	such
	
liabilities	arising	hereunder	which	may	be	payable	to	it	by	any	party	hereto	that	is	an	Affected	Financial	Institution;	and
103
	(b)	
the	effects	of	any	Bail-In	Action	on	any	such	liability,	including,	if	applicable:
(i)	a	reduction	in	full	or	in	part	or	cancellation	of	any	such	liability;
(ii)	a	conversion	of	all,	or	a	portion	of,	such	liability	into	shares	or	other	instruments	of	ownership	in	such
	
Affected	Financial	Institution,	its	parent	entity,	or	a	bridge	institution	that	may	be	issued	to	it	or	otherwise	conferred	on	it,
	
and	that	such	shares	or	other	instruments	of	ownership	will	be	accepted	by	it	in	lieu	of	any	rights	with	respect	to	any	such
	
liability	under	this	Agreement	or	any	other	Loan	Document;	or
(iii)	the	variation	of	the	terms	of	such	liability	in	connection	with	the	exercise	of	the	Write-Down	and	Conversion
	
Powers	of	the	applicable	Resolution	Authority.
SECTION	9.18.		
Acknowledgement	Regarding	Any	Supported	QFCs
.		To	the	extent	that	this	Agreement	provides
	
support,	through	a	guarantee	or	otherwise,	for	hedging	agreements	or	any	other	agreement	or	instrument	that	is	a	QFC	(such
	
support,	“
QFC	Credit	Support
”,	and	each	such	QFC	a	“
Supported	QFC
”),	the	parties	acknowledge	and	agree	as	follows	with	respect
	
to	the	resolution	power	of	the	Federal	Deposit	Insurance	Corporation	under	the	Federal	Deposit	Insurance	Act	and	Title	II	of	the
	
Dodd-Frank	Wall	Street	Reform	and	Consumer	Protection	Act	(together	with	the	regulations	promulgated	thereunder,	the	“
U.S.
	
Special	Resolution	Regimes
”)	in	respect	of	such	Supported	QFC	and	QFC	Credit	Support	(with	the	provisions	below	applicable
	
notwithstanding	that	this	Agreement	and	any	Supported	QFC	may	in	fact	be	stated	to	be	governed	by	the	laws	of	the	State	of	New
	
York	and/or	of	the	United	States	or	any	other	state	of	the	United	States):
In	the	event	a	Covered	Entity	that	is	party	to	a	Supported	QFC	(each,	a	“
Covered	Party
”)	becomes	subject	to	a
	
proceeding	under	a	U.S.	Special	Resolution	Regime,	the	transfer	of	such	Supported	QFC	and	the	benefit	of	such	QFC	Credit
	
Support	(and	any	interest	and	obligation	in	or	under	such	Supported	QFC	and	such	QFC	Credit	Support,	and	any	rights	in	property
	
securing	such	Supported	QFC	or	such	QFC	Credit	Support)	from	such	Covered	Party	will	be	effective	to	the	same	extent	as	the
	
transfer	would	be	effective	under	the	U.S.	Special	Resolution	Regime	if	the	Supported	QFC	and	such	QFC	Credit	Support	(and	any
	
such	interest,	obligation	and	rights	in	property)	were	governed	by	the	laws	of	the	United	States	or	a	state	of	the	United	States.	In
	
the	event	a	Covered	Party	or	a	BHC	Act	Affiliate	of	a	Covered	Party	becomes	subject	to	a	proceeding	under	a	U.S.	Special
	
Resolution	Regime,	Default	Rights	under	this	that	might	otherwise	apply	to	such	Supported	QFC	or	any	QFC	Credit	Support	that
	
may	be	exercised	against	such	Covered	Party	are	permitted	to	be	exercised	to	no	greater	extent	than	such	Default	Rights	could	be
	
exercised	under	the	U.S.	Special	Resolution	Regime	if	the	Supported	QFC	and	this	Agreement	were	governed	by	the	laws	of	the
	
United	States	or	a	state	of	the	United	States.	Without	limitation	of	the	foregoing,	it	is	understood	and	agreed	that	rights	and
	
remedies	of	the	parties	with	respect	to	a	Defaulting	Lender	shall	in	no	event	affect	the	rights	of	any	Covered	Party	with	respect	to	a
	
Supported	QFC	or	any	QFC	Credit	Support.
	
SECTION	9.19.		
Release	of	Guarantees
.	A	Guarantor	(other	than	the	Borrower)	shall	automatically	be	released
	
from	its	obligations	under	the	Loan	Documents	and	the	Guarantee	of	such	Guarantor	shall	automatically	be	terminated,	in	each
	
case,	upon	(i)	the	consummation	of	any	transaction	permitted	by	this	Agreement	as	a	result	of	which	such	Guarantor	ceases	to	be	a
	
Restricted	Subsidiary;	
provided
	that,	if	so	required	by	
Section	9.02
,	the	Required	Lenders	shall	have	consented	to	such	transaction
	
or	(ii)	such	Guarantor	becoming	an	Excluded	Subsidiary;	
provided
	that	the	Borrower	has	elected	for	such	Excluded	Subsidiary	to	be
	
released	from	its	Guarantee.	Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	contained	herein	or	in	any	other	Loan	Document,	the
	
Administrative	Agent	is	hereby	irrevocably	authorized	by	each	Lender	(without	requirement	of	notice	to	or	consent	of	any	Lender
	
except	as	expressly	required	by	
Section	9.02
)	to	take	any	action	requested	by	Borrower	having	the	effect	of	releasing	any
	
104
	guarantee	obligations	to	the	extent	not	prohibited	by	any	Loan	Document	or	consented	to	in	accordance	with	
Section	9.02
.
	
Notwithstanding	anything	to	the	contrary	herein,	any	Guarantor	that	is	a	guarantor	with	respect	to	any	Specified	Borrower
	
Indebtedness	shall	not	be	released	from	its	obligations	under	the	Loan	Documents	and	the	Guarantee	of	such	Guarantor	shall	not
	
be	terminated	pursuant	to	any	Loan	Document,	in	each	case,	so	long	as	it	remains	a	guarantor	of	such	Specified	Borrower
	
Indebtedness.	In	connection	with	any	termination	or	release	pursuant	to	this	
Section	9.19
,	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	execute
	
and	deliver	to	any	Loan	Party,	at	such	Loan	Party’s	expense,	all	documents	that	such	Loan	Party	shall	reasonably	request	to
	
evidence	such	termination	or	release	so	long	as	the	Borrower	or	applicable	Loan	Party	shall	have	provided	the	Administrative	Agent
	
such	certifications	or	documents	as	the	Administrative	Agent	shall	reasonably	request	in	order	to	demonstrate	compliance	with	this
	
Agreement.
SECTION	9.20.		
Interest	Rate	Limitation
.		Notwithstanding	anything	herein	to	the	contrary,	if	at	any	time	the
	
interest	rate	applicable	to	any	Loan	or	other	Obligation	owing	under	this	Agreement,	together	with	all	fees,	charges	and	other
	
amounts	that	are	treated	as	interest	on	such	Loan	or	other	Obligation	under	applicable	law	(collectively,	“
Charges
”),	shall	exceed
	
the	maximum	lawful	rate	(the	“
Maximum	Rate
”)	that	may	be	contracted	for,	charged,	taken,	received	or	reserved	by	the	Lender	or
	
other	Person	holding	such	Loan	or	other	Obligation	in	accordance	with	applicable	law,	the	rate	of	interest	payable	in	respect	of
	
such	Loan	or	other	Obligation	hereunder,	together	with	all	Charges	payable	in	respect	thereof,	shall	be	limited	to	the	Maximum
	
Rate.		To	the	extent	lawful,	the	interest	and	Charges	that	would	have	been	paid	in	respect	of	such	Loan	or	other	Obligation	but
	
were	not	paid	as	a	result	of	the	operation	of	this	
Section	9.20
	shall	be	cumulated	and	the	interest	and	Charges	payable	to	such
	
Lender	or	other	Person	in	respect	of	other	Loans	or	Obligations	or	periods	shall	be	increased	(but	not	above	the	amount	collectible
	
at	the	Maximum	Rate	therefor)	until	such	cumulated	amount,	together	with	interest	thereon	at	the	Federal	Funds	Effective	Rate	for
	
each	day	to	the	date	of	repayment,	shall	have	been	received	by	such	Lender	or	other	Person.		Any	amount	collected	by	such	Lender
	
or	other	Person	that	exceeds	the	maximum	amount	collectible	at	the	Maximum	Rate	shall	be	applied	to	the	reduction	of	the
	
principal	balance	of	such	Loan	or	other	Obligation	or	refunded	to	the	Borrower	so	that	at	no	time	shall	the	interest	and	Charges
	
paid	or	payable	in	respect	of	such	Loan	or	other	Obligation	exceed	the	maximum	amount	collectible	at	the	Maximum	Rate.
[
Remainder	of	page	intentionally	left	blank.		Signature	pages	follow.
]
105
	IN	WITNESS	WHEREOF,	the	parties	hereto	have	caused	this	Agreement	to	be	duly	executed	by	their	respective
	
authorized	representatives	as	of	the	day	and	year	first	above	written.
	
	
TESLA,	INC.,	as	the	Borrower
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Zachary	Kirkhorn
	
Name:	Zachary	Kirkhorn
	
Title:	Chief	Financial	Officer
	
	
By:
/s/	Jeffrey	Munson
	
Name:	Jeffrey	Munson
	
Title:	Director,	Treasury	&	Capital	Markets
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
CITIBANK,	N.A.,	as	the	Administrative	Agent,	and	as	a	Lender	and
	
Issuing	Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Susan	Olsen
	
Name:	Susan	Olsen
	
Title:	Vice	President
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
DEUTSCHE	BANK	AG	NEW	YORK	BRANCH,	as	a	Lender	and	Issuing
	
Bank
	
	
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Ming	K.	Chu
	
	
Name:	Ming	K.	Chu
	
	
Title:	Director
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Marko	Lukin
	
	
Name:	Marko	Lukin
	
	
Title:	Vice	President
	
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
CREDIT	AGRICOLE	CORPORATE	AND	INVESTMENT	BANK,	as	a
	
Lender	and	Issuing	Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Jill	Wong
	
Name:	Jill	Wong
	
Title:	Director
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Gordon	Yip
	
Name:	Gordon	Yip
	
Title:	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
GOLDMAN	SACHS	BANK	USA,	as	a	Lender	and	Issuing	Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Rebecca	Kratz
	
Name:	Rebecca	Kratz
	
Title:	Authorized	Signatory
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
HSBC	Bank	USA,	National	Association,	as	a	Lender	and	Issuing	Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Andrew	Everett
	
Name:	Andrew	Everett
	
Title:	Senior	Vice	President
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
MORGAN	STANLEY	BANK,	N.A.,	as	a	Lender	and	Issuing	Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Michael	King
	
Name:	Michael	King
	
Title:	Authorized	Signatory
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
SOCIETE	GENERALE,	as	a	Lender	and	Issuing	Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Kimberly	Metzger
	
Name:	Kimberly	Metzger
	
Title:	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
The	Toronto-Dominion	Bank,	New	York	Branch,	as	a	Lender	and	Issuing
	
Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	David	Perlman
	
Name:	David	Perlman
	
Title:	Authorized	Signatory
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
Wells	Fargo	Bank,	National	Association,	as	a	Lender	and	Issuing	Bank
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Jonathan	D.	Beck
	
Name:	Jonathan	D.	Beck
	
Title:	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
BANCO	SANTANDER,	S.A.,	NEW	YORK	BRANCH,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Andres	Barbosa
	
Name:	Andres	Barbosa
	
Title:	Managing	Director
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Rita	Walz-Cuccioli
	
Name:	Rita	Walz-Cuccioli
	
Title:	Executive	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
LLOYDS	BANK	CORPORATE	MARKETS	PLC,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Kamala	Basdeo
	
Name:	Kamala	Basdeo
	
Title:	Assistant	Vice	President
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Tina	Wong
	
Name:	Tina	Wong
	
Title:	Assistant	Vice	President
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
Bank	of	China	Limited,	New	York	Branch,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Raymond	Qiao
	
Name:	Raymond	Qiao
	
Title:	Executive	Vice	President
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
Canadian	Imperial	Bank	of	Commerce,	New	York	Branch,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Farhad	Merali
	
Name:	Farhad	Merali
	
Title:	Managing	Director	&	Authorized	Signatory
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
CREDIT	SUISSE	AG,	New	York	Branch,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Doreen	Barr
	
Name:	Doreen	Barr
	
Title:	Auhorized	Signatory
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Michael	Dieffenbacher
	
Name:	Michael	Dieffenbacher
	
Title:	Auhorized	Signatory
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
STANDARD	CHARTERED	BANK,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Kristopher	Tracy
	
Name:	Kristopher	Tracy
	
Title:	Director,	Financing	Solutions
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
THE	BANK	OF	NOVA	SCOTIA,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Rolf	Schmitz
	
Name:	Rolf	Schmitz
	
Title:	Managing	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
U.S.	BANK	NATIONAL	ASSOCIATION,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Brett	M.	Justman
	
Name:	Brett	M.	Justman
	
Title:	Vice	President
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
UNICREDIT	BANK	AG	–	NEW	YORK	BRANCH,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Edward	D.	Herko
	
Name:	Edward	D.	Herko
	
Title:	Director
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Thomas	Petz
	
Name:	Thomas	Petz
	
Title:	Managing	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
BANK	OF	THE	WEST,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Charlene	A	Davidson
	
Name:	Charlene	A	Davidson
	
Title:	Managing	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
THE	BANK	OF	NEW	YORK	MELLON,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Tak	Cheng
	
Name:	Tak	Cheng
	
Title:	Vice	President
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]	
BARCLAYS	BANK	PLC,	as	a	Lender
	
	
	
	
By:
/s/	Sean	Duggan
	
Name:	Sean	Duggan
	
Title:	Director
	
[Signature	Page	to	Credit	Agreement]Exhibit	21.1
	
SUBSIDIARIES	OF	TESLA,	INC.
	
Name	of	Subsidiary
	
Jurisdiction	of
	
Incorporation	or	Organization
Alabama	Service	LLC
	
Delaware
Allegheny	Solar	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Allegheny	Solar	Manager	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Alset	Transport	GmbH
	
Germany
Alset	Warehouse	GmbH
	
Germany
Ancon	Holdings	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Holdings	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	Corporation
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	II	Lessee	Manager,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	II	Lessee,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	II	Lessor,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	III	Lessee	Manager,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	III	Lessee,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	III	Lessor,	LLC
	
Delaware
Ancon	Solar	Managing	Member	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Arpad	Solar	Borrower,	LLC
	
Delaware
Arpad	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Arpad	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
AU	Solar	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
AU	Solar	2,	LLC
	
Delaware
Banyan	SolarCity	Manager	2010,	LLC
	
Delaware
Banyan	SolarCity	Owner	2010,	LLC
	
Delaware
Basking	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Basking	Solar	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Basking	Solar	Manager	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Beatrix	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Bernese	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Blue	Skies	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Blue	Skies	Solar	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
BT	Connolly	Storage,	LLC
	
Texas
Caballero	Solar	Managing	Member	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Caballero	Solar	Managing	Member	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Caballero	Solar	Managing	Member	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Cardinal	Blue	Solar,	LLC
	
Delaware
Castello	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Castello	Solar	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Castello	Solar	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Chaparral	SREC	Borrower,	LLC
	
Delaware
Chaparral	SREC	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Chompie	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Chompie	Solar	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Chompie	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Chompie	Solar	Manager	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Clydesdale	SC	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Colorado	River	Project,	LLC
	
Delaware
Community	Solar	Partners,	LLC
	
Delaware
Connecticut	Auto	Repair	and	Service	LLC
	
Delaware
Compass	Automation	Incorporated
	
Illinois
Dom	Solar	General	Partner	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Dom	Solar	Lessor	I,	LP
	
Cayman	Islands
Domino	Solar	Ltd.
	
Cayman	Islands
Dom	Solar	Limited	Partner	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Falconer	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware	
Firehorn	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Cayman	Islands
Firehorn	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
FocalPoint	Solar	Borrower,	LLC
	
Delaware
FocalPoint	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
FocalPoint	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Fontane	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Fotovoltaica	GI	4,	S.	de	R.L.	de	C.V.
	
Mexico
Fotovoltaica	GI	5,	S.	de	R.L.	de	C.V.
	
Mexico
FP	System	Owner,	LLC
	
Delaware
Giga	Insurance	Texas,	Inc.
	
Texas
Giga	Texas	Energy,	LLC
	
Delaware
Grohmann	Engineering	Trading	(Shanghai)	Co.	Ltd.
	
China
Grohmann	USA,	Inc.
	
	
Delaware
Guilder	Solar,	LLC
	
Delaware
Hamilton	Solar,	LLC
	
Delaware
Hangzhou	Silevo	Electric	Power	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Harpoon	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Harpoon	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Haymarket	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Haymarket	Manager	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Haymarket	Solar	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Hibar	Systems	Europe	GmbH
	
Germany
Hive	Battery	Inc.
	
Delaware
Ikehu	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
IL	Buono	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Iliosson,	S.A.	de	C.V.
	
Mexico
Industrial	Maintenance	Technologies,	Inc.
	
California
Kansas	Repair	LLC
	
Delaware
Klamath	Falls	Solar	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Knight	Solar	Managing	Member	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Knight	Solar	Managing	Member	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Knight	Solar	Managing	Member	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Landlord	2008-A,	LLC
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	Manager	II,	LLC
	
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	Manager	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	Master	Tenant	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	MT	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	Owner	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Louis	Solar	Owner	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Master	Tenant	2008-A,	LLC
	
Delaware
Matterhorn	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Maxwell	Holding	GmbH
	
Germany
Maxwell	Technologies	GmbH
	
Germany
Maxwell	Technologies,	Inc.
	
Delaware
Megalodon	Solar,	LLC
	
Delaware
MML	Acquisition	Corp.
	
Delaware
Monte	Rosa	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Manager	V,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Manager	VI,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Manager	X,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Manager	XI,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Manager	XII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Master	Tenant	IX,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Master	Tenant	V,	LLC
	
California
Mound	Solar	Master	Tenant	VI,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Master	Tenant	VII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Master	Tenant	VIII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	MT	Manager	IX,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	MT	Manager	VII,	LLC
	
Delaware	
Mound	Solar	MT	Manager	VIII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Owner	IX,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Owner	Manager	IX,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Owner	Manager	VII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Owner	Manager	VIII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Owner	V,	LLC
	
California
Mound	Solar	Owner	VI,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Owner	VII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Owner	VIII,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Partnership	X,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Partnership	XI,	LLC
	
Delaware
Mound	Solar	Partnership	XII,	LLC
	
Delaware
MS	SolarCity	2008,	LLC
	
Delaware
MS	SolarCity	Commercial	2008,	LLC
	
Delaware
MS	SolarCity	Residential	2008,	LLC
	
Delaware
New	Mexico	Sales	and	Vehicle	Service	LLC
	
Delaware
NBA	SolarCity	AFB,	LLC
	
California
NBA	SolarCity	Commercial	I,	LLC
	
California
NBA	SolarCity	Solar	Phoenix,	LLC
	
California
Northern	Nevada	Research	Co.,	LLC
	
Nevada
Orange	Vehicle	Sales	LLC
	
Delaware
Oranje	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Oranje	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Paramount	Energy	Fund	I	Lessee,	LLC
	
Delaware
Paramount	Energy	Fund	I	Lessor,	LLC
	
Delaware
PEF	I	MM,	LLC
	
Delaware
Perbix	Machine	Company,	Inc.
	
Minnesota
Presidio	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Presidio	Solar	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Presidio	Solar	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Pukana	La	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
R9	Solar	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Roadster	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Beijing)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Roadster	Finland	Oy
	
Finland
SA	VPP	Holding	Trust
	
Australia
SA	VPP	Project	Trust
	
Australia
Sequoia	Pacific	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Sequoia	Pacific	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Sequoia	Pacific	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Sequoia	SolarCity	Owner	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Sierra	Solar	Power	(Hong	Kong)	Limited
	
Hong	Kong
SiiLion,	Inc.
	
Delaware
Silevo,	LLC
	
Delaware
Shoreline	Vehicle	Sales	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Aquarium	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Energy	of	America	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Energy	of	America	Manager	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Explorer,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Gezellig	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	House	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	House	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	House	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	House	IV,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Fund	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Fund	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Fund	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Fund	IV-A,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Fund	V,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Fund	VI,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Manager	II,	LLC
	
Delaware	
Solar	Integrated	Manager	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Manager	IV-A,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Manager	V,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Integrated	Manager	VI,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Services	Company,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Ulysses	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Ulysses	Manager	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Voyager,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Warehouse	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Warehouse	Manager	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Warehouse	Manager	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
Solar	Warehouse	Manager	IV,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Alpine	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Amphitheatre	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Arbor	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Arches	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	AU	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Cruyff	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Electrical,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Electrical	New	York	Corporation
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Finance	Company,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Finance	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Foxborough	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	FTE	Series	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	FTE	Series	2,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Fund	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Grand	Canyon	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Holdings	2008,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	International,	Inc.
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Leviathan	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	LMC	Series	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	LMC	Series	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	LMC	Series	III,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	LMC	Series	IV,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	LMC	Series	V,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Mid-Atlantic	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Nitro	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Orange	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Series	Holdings	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Series	Holdings	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Series	Holdings	IV,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Steep	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Ulu	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarCity	Village	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarRock,	LLC
	
Delaware
SolarStrong,	LLC
	
Delaware
Sparrowhawk	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
SREC	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
TALT	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
TALT	TBM	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
TBM	Partnership	II,	LLC
	
Delaware
TEO	Engineering,	Inc.
	
California
TES	2017-1,	LLC
	
Delaware
TES	2017-2,	LLC
	
Delaware
TES	Holdings	2017-1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	2014	Warehouse	SPV	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	Auto	Lease	Trust	2019-A
	
Delaware
Tesla	Auto	Lease	Trust	2020-A
	
Delaware
Tesla	Auto	Lease	Trust	2021-A
	
Delaware
Tesla	Auto	Lease	Trust	2021-B
	
Delaware
Tesla	Auto	Lease	Trust	2022-A
	
Delaware	
Tesla	Automation	GmbH
	
Germany
Tesla	Automobile	Information	Service	(Dalian)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Management	and	Service	(Haikou)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Beijing)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Changchun)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Changsha)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Chengdu)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Chongqing)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Dalian)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Fuzhou)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Guangzhou)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Guiyang)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Haerbin)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Hangzhou)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Hefei)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Hohhot)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Jinan)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Kunming)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Lanzhou)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Nanchang)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Nanjing)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Nanning)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Ningbo)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Qingdao)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Shanghai)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Shenyang)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Shijiazhuang)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Suzhou)	Co.	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Taiyuan)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Tianjin)	Co.	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Urumqi)	Co.	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Wenzhou)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Wuhan)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Xi'an)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Xiamen)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Yinchuan)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Automobile	Sales	and	Service	(Zhengzhou)	Co.	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Automobiles	Sales	and	Service	Mexico,	S.	de	R.L.	de	C.V.
	
Mexico
Tesla	(Beijing)	New	Energy	R&D	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Belgium	BV
	
Belgium
Tesla	Canada	Finance	ULC
	
Canada
Tesla	Canada	GP	Inc.
	
Canada
Tesla	Canada	LP
	
Canada
Tesla	Charging,	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	Construction	(Shanghai)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
	
China
Tesla	Czech	Republic	s.r.o.
	
	
Czech	Republic
Tesla	Energia	Macau	Limitada
	
Macau
Tesla	Energy	d.o.o.
	
Slovenia
Tesla	Energy	Management	LLC
	
	
Tesla	Energy	Operations,	Inc.
	
Delaware
Tesla	Finance	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	Financial	Leasing	(China)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Financial	Services	GmbH
	
Germany
Tesla	Financial	Services	Holdings	B.V.
	
Netherlands
Tesla	Financial	Services	Limited
	
United	Kingdom
Tesla	France	S.à	r.l.
	
France
Tesla	Germany	GmbH
	
Germany
Tesla	General	Insurance,	Inc.
	
Arizona
Tesla	Greece	Single	Member	P.C.
	
Greece
Tesla	Hrvatska	d.o.o.
	
Croatia
Tesla	Hungary	Kft.
	
Hungary	
Tesla	India	Motors	and	Energy	Private	Limited
	
India
Tesla	Insurance	Brokers	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Insurance	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	Insurance,	Inc.
	
Delaware
Tesla	Insurance	Ltd.
	
Malta
Tesla	Insurance	Company
	
California
Tesla	Insurance	Services,	Inc.
	
California
Tesla	Insurance	Services	of	Texas,	Inc.
	
Texas
Tesla	International	B.V.
	
Netherlands
Tesla	Investments	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	Italy	S.r.l.
	
Italy
Tesla	Jordan	Car	Trading	LLC
	
Jordan
Tesla	Korea	Limited
	
Republic	of	Korea
Tesla	Lease	Trust
	
Delaware
Tesla	LLC
	
	
Delaware
Tesla	Manufacturing	Brandenburg	SE
	
Germany
Tesla	Michigan,	Inc.
	
Michigan
Tesla	Mississippi	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	Motors	Australia,	Pty	Ltd
	
Australia
Tesla	Motors	Austria	GmbH
	
Austria
Tesla	Motors	(Beijing)	Co.,	Ltd.
	
China
Tesla	Motors	Canada	ULC
	
Canada
Tesla	Motors	Coöperatief	U.A.
	
Netherlands
Tesla	Motors	Denmark	ApS
	
Denmark
Tesla	Motors	FL,	Inc.
	
Florida
Tesla	Motors	HK	Limited
	
Hong	Kong
Tesla	Motors	Iceland	ehf.
	
Iceland
Tesla	Motors	Ireland	Limited
	
Ireland
Tesla	Motors	Israel	Ltd.
	
Israel
Tesla	Motors	Japan	GK
	
Japan
Tesla	Motors	Limited
	
United	Kingdom
Tesla	Motors	Luxembourg	S.à	r.l.
	
Luxembourg
Tesla	Motors	MA,	Inc.
	
Massachusetts
Tesla	Motors	Netherlands	B.V.
	
Netherlands
Tesla	Motors	New	York	LLC
	
New	York
Tesla	Motors	NL	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	Motors	NV,	Inc.
	
Nevada
Tesla	Motors	PA,	Inc.
	
Pennsylvania
Tesla	Motors	Romania	S.R.L.
	
Romania
Tesla	Motors	Sales	and	Service	LLC
	
Turkey
Tesla	Motors	Singapore	Holdings	Pte.	Ltd.
	
Singapore
Tesla	Motors	Singapore	Private	Limited
	
Singapore
Tesla	Motors	Stichting
	
Netherlands
Tesla	Motors	Taiwan	Limited
	
Taiwan
Tesla	Motors	TN,	Inc.
	
Tennessee
Tesla	Motors	TX,	Inc.
	
Texas
Tesla	Motors	UT,	Inc.
	
Utah
Tesla	Nambe	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	New	Zealand	ULC
	
New	Zealand
Tesla	Norway	AS
	
Norway
Tesla	Poland	sp.	z	o.o.
	
Poland
Tesla	Property	&Casualty,	Inc.
	
California
Tesla	Portugal,	Sociedade	Unipessoal	LDA
	
Portugal
Tesla	Puerto	Rico	LLC
	
Puerto	Rico
Tesla	Pumps	(Ningbo)	Co.,LTD	(fka:	Hibar	China	Co.	Ltd.)
	
China
Tesla	Pumps	Seoul	Ltd.
	
Republic	of	Korea
Tesla	Sales,	Inc.
	
Delaware
Tesla	Sdn.	Bhd.
	
Malaysia
Tesla	Shanghai	Co.,	Ltd
	
China
Tesla	Spain,	S.L.	Unipersonal
	
Spain
Tesla	Switzerland	GmbH
	
Switzerland	
Tesla	(Thailand)	Ltd.
	
Thailand
Tesla	TH1	LLC
	
Delaware
Tesla	TH2	LLC
	
Delaware
Telsa	Toronto	Automation	ULC
	
Canada
Tesla	Toronto	International	Holdings	ULC
	
Canada
Tesla		Transport	B.V.
	
Netherlands
The	Big	Green	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
The	Big	Green	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Three	Rivers	Solar	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Three	Rivers	Solar	2,	LLC
	
Delaware
Three	Rivers	Solar	3,	LLC
	
Delaware
Three	Rivers	Solar	Manager	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Three	Rivers	Solar	Manager	2,	LLC
	
Delaware
Three	Rivers	Solar	Manager	3,	LLC
	
Delaware
TM	International	C.V.
	
Netherlands
TM	Sweden	AB
	
Sweden
USB	SolarCity	Manager	IV,	LLC
	
Delaware
USB	SolarCity	Master	Tenant	IV,	LLC
	
California
USB	SolarCity	Owner	IV,	LLC
	
California
Visigoth	Solar	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
Visigoth	Solar	Holdings,	LLC
	
Delaware
Visigoth	Solar	Managing	Member	1,	LLC
	
Delaware
VPP	Project	1	(SA)	Pty	Ltd.
	
Australia
Weisshorn	Solar	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Weisshorn	Solar	Manager	I,	LLC
	
Delaware
Zep	Solar	LLC
	
CaliforniaExhibit	23.1
CONSENT	OF	INDEPENDENT	REGISTERED	PUBLIC	ACCOUNTING	FIRM
We	hereby	consent	to	the	incorporation	by	reference	in	the	Registration	Statements	on	Form	S-8	(Nos.	333-232079,	333-223169,	333-216376,	333-
209696,	333-198002,	333-187113,	333-183033,	and	333-167874)	of	Tesla,	Inc.	of	our	report	dated	January	30,	2023	relating	to	the	financial	statements
	
and	the	effectiveness	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	which	appears	in	this	Form	10-K.
	
/s/	PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP
San	Jose,	California
January	30,	2023
	
	
1
	Exhibit	31.1
	
CERTIFICATIONS
	
I,	Elon	Musk,	certify	that:
	
1.	I	have	reviewed	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	of	Tesla,	Inc.;
	
2.	Based	on	my	knowledge,	this	report	does	not	contain	any	untrue	statement	of	a	material	fact	or	omit	to	state	a	material	fact	necessary	to	make	the
	
statements	made,	in	light	of	the	circumstances	under	which	such	statements	were	made,	not	misleading	with	respect	to	the	period	covered	by
	
this	report;
	
3.	Based	on	my	knowledge,	the	financial	statements,	and	other	financial	information	included	in	this	report,	fairly	present	in	all	material	respects	the
	
financial	condition,	results	of	operations	and	cash	flows	of	the	registrant	as	of,	and	for,	the	periods	presented	in	this	report;
	
4.	The	registrant’s	other	certifying	officer	and	I	are	responsible	for	establishing	and	maintaining	disclosure	controls	and	procedures	(as	defined	in
	
Exchange	Act	Rules	13a-15(e)	and	15d-15(e))	and	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	(as	defined	in	Exchange	Act	Rules	13a-15(f)	and	15d-
15(f))	for	the	registrant	and	have:
	
(a)	Designed	such	disclosure	controls	and	procedures,	or	caused	such	disclosure	controls	and	procedures	to	be	designed	under	our	supervision,
	
to	ensure	that	material	information	relating	to	the	registrant,	including	its	consolidated	subsidiaries,	is	made	known	to	us	by	others	within
	
those	entities,	particularly	during	the	period	in	which	this	report	is	being	prepared;
	
(b)	Designed	such	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	or	caused	such	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	to	be	designed	under	our
	
supervision,	to	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding	the	reliability	of	financial	reporting	and	the	preparation	of	financial	statements	for
	
external	purposes	in	accordance	with	generally	accepted	accounting	principles;
	
(c)	Evaluated	the	effectiveness	of	the	registrant’s	disclosure	controls	and	procedures	and	presented	in	this	report	our	conclusions	about	the
	
effectiveness	of	the	disclosure	controls	and	procedures,	as	of	the	end	of	the	period	covered	by	this	report	based	on	such	evaluation;	and
	
(d)	Disclosed	in	this	report	any	change	in	the	registrant’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	that	occurred	during	the	registrant’s	most
	
recent	fiscal	quarter	(the	registrant’s	fourth	fiscal	quarter	in	the	case	of	an	annual	report)	that	has	materially	affected,	or	is	reasonably
	
likely	to	materially	affect,	the	registrant’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting;	and
	
5.	The	registrant’s	other	certifying	officer	and	I	have	disclosed,	based	on	our	most	recent	evaluation	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	to	the
	
registrant’s	auditors	and	the	audit	committee	of	the	registrant’s	Board	of	Directors	(or	persons	performing	the	equivalent	functions):
	
(a)	All	significant	deficiencies	and	material	weaknesses	in	the	design	or	operation	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	which	are
	
reasonably	likely	to	adversely	affect	the	registrant’s	ability	to	record,	process,	summarize	and	report	financial	information;	and
	
(b)	Any	fraud,	whether	or	not	material,	that	involves	management	or	other	employees	who	have	a	significant	role	in	the	registrant’s	internal
	
control	over	financial	reporting.
	
		
Date:	January	30,	2023
		
		
/s/	Elon	Musk
		
		
		
Elon	Musk
		
		
		
Chief	Executive	Officer
		
		
		
(Principal	Executive	Officer)
	
	Exhibit	31.2
CERTIFICATIONS
	
I,	Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn,	certify	that:
	
1.	I	have	reviewed	this	Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	of	Tesla,	Inc.;
	
2.	Based	on	my	knowledge,	this	report	does	not	contain	any	untrue	statement	of	a	material	fact	or	omit	to	state	a	material	fact	necessary	to	make	the
	
statements	made,	in	light	of	the	circumstances	under	which	such	statements	were	made,	not	misleading	with	respect	to	the	period	covered	by
	
this	report;
	
3.	Based	on	my	knowledge,	the	financial	statements,	and	other	financial	information	included	in	this	report,	fairly	present	in	all	material	respects	the
	
financial	condition,	results	of	operations	and	cash	flows	of	the	registrant	as	of,	and	for,	the	periods	presented	in	this	report;
	
4.	The	registrant’s	other	certifying	officer	and	I	are	responsible	for	establishing	and	maintaining	disclosure	controls	and	procedures	(as	defined	in
	
Exchange	Act	Rules	13a-15(e)	and	15d-15(e))	and	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	(as	defined	in	Exchange	Act	Rules	13a-15(f)	and	15d-
15(f))	for	the	registrant	and	have:
	
(a)	Designed	such	disclosure	controls	and	procedures,	or	caused	such	disclosure	controls	and	procedures	to	be	designed	under	our	supervision,
	
to	ensure	that	material	information	relating	to	the	registrant,	including	its	consolidated	subsidiaries,	is	made	known	to	us	by	others	within
	
those	entities,	particularly	during	the	period	in	which	this	report	is	being	prepared;
	
(b)	Designed	such	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	or	caused	such	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	to	be	designed	under	our
	
supervision,	to	provide	reasonable	assurance	regarding	the	reliability	of	financial	reporting	and	the	preparation	of	financial	statements	for
	
external	purposes	in	accordance	with	generally	accepted	accounting	principles;
	
(c)	Evaluated	the	effectiveness	of	the	registrant’s	disclosure	controls	and	procedures	and	presented	in	this	report	our	conclusions	about	the
	
effectiveness	of	the	disclosure	controls	and	procedures,	as	of	the	end	of	the	period	covered	by	this	report	based	on	such	evaluation;	and
	
(d)	Disclosed	in	this	report	any	change	in	the	registrant’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	that	occurred	during	the	registrant’s	most
	
recent	fiscal	quarter	(the	registrant’s	fourth	fiscal	quarter	in	the	case	of	an	annual	report)	that	has	materially	affected,	or	is	reasonably
	
likely	to	materially	affect,	the	registrant’s	internal	control	over	financial	reporting;	and
	
5.	The	registrant’s	other	certifying	officer	and	I	have	disclosed,	based	on	our	most	recent	evaluation	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting,	to	the
	
registrant’s	auditors	and	the	audit	committee	of	the	registrant’s	Board	of	Directors	(or	persons	performing	the	equivalent	functions):
	
(a)	All	significant	deficiencies	and	material	weaknesses	in	the	design	or	operation	of	internal	control	over	financial	reporting	which	are
	
reasonably	likely	to	adversely	affect	the	registrant’s	ability	to	record,	process,	summarize	and	report	financial	information;	and
	
(b)	Any	fraud,	whether	or	not	material,	that	involves	management	or	other	employees	who	have	a	significant	role	in	the	registrant’s	internal
	
control	over	financial	reporting.
	
		
Date:	January	30,	2023
		
	
	
/s/	Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn
		
		
	
	
Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn
		
		
	
	
Chief	Financial	Officer
		
		
	
	
(Principal	Financial	Officer)
	
	Exhibit	32.1
	
	
SECTION	1350	CERTIFICATIONS
	
I,	Elon	Musk,	certify,	pursuant	to	18	U.S.C.	Section	1350,	that,	to	my	knowledge,	the	Annual	Report	of	Tesla,	Inc.	on	Form	10-K	for	the	annual	period
	
ended	December	31,	2022,	(i)	fully	complies	with	the	requirements	of	Section	13(a)	or	15(d)	of	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934	and	(ii)	that	the
	
information	contained	in	such	Form	10-K	fairly	presents,	in	all	material	respects,	the	financial	condition	and	results	of	operations	of	Tesla,	Inc.
	
	
Date:	January	30,	2023
		
		
/s/	Elon	Musk
	
		
		
		
Elon	Musk
		
		
		
Chief	Executive	Officer
		
		
		
(Principal	Executive	Officer)
	
I,	Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn,	certify,	pursuant	to	18	U.S.C.	Section	1350,	that,	to	my	knowledge,	the	Annual	Report	of	Tesla,	Inc.	on	Form	10-K	for	the	annual
	
period	ended	December	31,	2022,	(i)	fully	complies	with	the	requirements	of	Section	13(a)	or	15(d)	of	the	Securities	Exchange	Act	of	1934	and	(ii)	that
	
the	information	contained	in	such	Form	10-K	fairly	presents,	in	all	material	respects,	the	financial	condition	and	results	of	operations	of	Tesla,	Inc.
	
	
Date:	January	30,	2023
		
		
/s/	Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn
		
		
		
Zachary	J.	Kirkhorn
		
		
		
Chief	Financial	Officer
		
		
		
(Principal	Financial	Officer)
	
	